DOCTOR: Good morning, Mr. MinerD. I'm Dr. Beinborn. It's nice to meet you. So, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Morning. Beinborn, you say? Sounds… foreign. Anyway, it's my face and legs. They’re puffin’ up, see? Like a balloon. Been happenin’ for a bit now, though I can’t rightly say how long. Old age, probably. It’s what gets ya in the end.
DOCTOR: Okay, puffiness in your face and legs… and you've noticed this for some time now. I understand you think it might be related to age. It's good you're getting it checked out, though. To help me understand what might be going on, could you tell me a little more about when you first noticed the swelling?
PATIENT: Honestly? Can’t say for sure. It comes and goes, y'know? One day I look in the mirror and think, “Goodness, I’m gettin’ rounder,” and the next I don’t notice it so much. Weeks, maybe? Months? It’s hard to keep track when you’re… well, when you’re not as sharp as you used to be. Don't bother writin' that down, it's just a guess. It's not like it's important.
DOCTOR: Okay, intermittent swelling, coming and going over weeks or months. That’s helpful. And is it worse at certain times of the day?
PATIENT: Now that… that I think I can tell ya somethin' about. It's worse in the evenin', usually. After I've been on my feet all day. I do a bit of… fixin’ things, see? Welding mostly. It’s a trade. Been doin' it for decades. But yeah, by the time I’m done for the day, my ankles are lookin’ like grapefruits. Always have to put my feet up. Makes a fella tired, it does.
DOCTOR: Okay, so it's worse after being on your feet all day, especially with your work. Welding, you said?
PATIENT: Aye, welding. And soldering, brazing… all that sort of thing. It's honest work. Though, truth be told, it's not what it used to be. All these newfangled machines… too complicated for my liking. Give me an old torch any day. But that's neither here nor there, is it? You're a doctor, not a welder. What does my puffiness have to do with fixin' metal?
DOCTOR: You’re right to ask. Standing for long periods can certainly contribute to swelling in the legs and feet. But we want to rule out other possibilities as well. Do you notice any pain with the swelling?
PATIENT: Pain? Not really. It's not painful, exactly. More… heavy. Like I’m draggin’ around a couple of lead weights. And sometimes… sometimes it feels a bit itchy. Not all the time, mind you. Just now and then. Mostly just heavy and uncomfortable. Like wearin' boots that are a size too small. You know? Probably just my circulation. Old age again, I reckon. What’s the point of lookin’ into it if it's just gonna be somethin' I can't fix?
DOCTOR: Okay, heaviness and intermittent itchiness along with the swelling. It's good you're getting it checked out, even if it seems like it might just be related to age. We want to make sure nothing else is going on. Now, have you noticed any changes in your skin color around your legs or feet?
PATIENT: Skin color? Hmm… let me think. I don't spend much time lookin' at my legs, to be honest. Too busy workin'. But… now that you mention it… sometimes they look a bit… reddish? Especially after a long day. But that's probably just from the heat, you know? The welding torch gets pretty warm. Everything gets red, eventually. I wouldn't know what normal skin color even looks like these days. I haven't had a proper look in a mirror in weeks.
DOCTOR: Okay, some redness, especially after work. We'll take a look. Now, do you have any shortness of breath, or have you noticed any changes in how much energy you have lately?
PATIENT: Shortness of breath? Not particularly. I get a bit winded climbin' the stairs, maybe. But that’s always been the case. I never was much of an athlete. And energy… well, I’m retired, mostly. I do bits and pieces of fixin’ things, but it's not like I’m runnin' a marathon. So, no, I haven’t noticed any changes, exactly. Just… old. Gettin' old is tiring, you know? It's a full-time job in itself. Now, are we gettin' anywhere with this puffiness? Or are we just goin' in circles?
DOCTOR: We’re getting there, Mr. MinerD. I just want to rule out a few things. Have you had any problems with your kidneys or liver in the past?
PATIENT: Kidneys and liver… now there's a question. Haven’t thought about those in… well, ever. Never had any trouble with ‘em, as far as I know. Never been told I did, anyway. I don't go seein' doctors much. Waste of time and money, if you ask me. Most things just sort themselves out. No, no problems with kidneys or liver. I eat reasonably well, though I do enjoy a beer now and then. But who doesn't? Are you suspectin' somethin' serious? Because if you are, you should just say so. I don't like bein' kept in the dark.
DOCTOR: No, I’m not suspecting anything serious, Mr. MinerD. I’m just trying to get a complete picture. Let’s talk about medications. Are you currently taking any medications, prescription or over-the-counter?
PATIENT: Medications… hmm. Let me think. Not really. Used to take somethin' for my blood pressure, years ago. But the doctor took me off it. Said I was feelin' too tired. And I stopped takin' those little somethin'-or-others for my joints. Didn’t seem to do much good anyway. So, no, not takin' anything regularly. Just a bit of aspirin now and then for a headache, but that's about it. Now, if you’ll excuse me, I’m gettin' a bit of a headache right now from all these questions. Is this gonna take much longer?
DOCTOR: Just a few more questions, Mr. MinerD, and then I’d like to do a quick physical exam. Do you have any allergies to medications, food, or anything else?
PATIENT: Allergies… not that I know of. Never been stung by a bee or nothin'. Sometimes my skin gets a bit itchy after I’ve been workin’ with metal, but that’s probably just the dust and grime. And I can’t stand the smell of lilacs, but that’s not an allergy, is it? Just… dislike. No, no allergies. Honestly, I think I’ve answered enough questions for one day. Can we get to the exam part now? I'm startin' to feel a bit faint, to be honest. This chair isn't very comfortable either. .
DOCTOR: Alright, Mr. MinerD. Let’s take a look. If you feel faint at any point, please let me know immediately. I'm going to listen to your heart and lungs, and then I’ll check your legs and feet. If you could just lie down there for me, please?