DOCTOR: Good morning. Dr. Jules. Now, Miss Kreckel, if you could just tell me, in your own words, what brings you in today?
PATIENT: Good morning to you as well, Doctor. Well, my left leg… it’s gotten quite swollen. It’s been bothering me for a few days now. And, um, the nurse mentioned something about my heart… something being a bit off before? I don’t fully understand it, but I know it’s connected.
DOCTOR: Connected, you say?
PATIENT: Yes, that’s right. They did some tests a while back, and they said it was… atrial… fibrillation? Is that right? It was a bit of a mouthful, and I’ve not had much trouble with it until now, but the nurse said that could be why my leg is so big. Does that make sense? I'm sorry, I don't remember all the details.
DOCTOR: Atrial fibrillation… yes, I see it here. A rather common arrhythmia, really. And the leg swelling… could be a number of things. We’ll need to explore this systematically. Now, when you say “a few days,” can you be more specific?
PATIENT: Hmm… let me think. It started, I believe, on Monday. So, that would be… the 28th of July? It wasn't too bad at first, just a little puffiness. But it’s gotten worse each day since then. It’s quite uncomfortable now, actually.
DOCTOR: Monday the 28th. And is this swelling constant, or does it fluctuate throughout the day?
PATIENT: It seems to be worse at the end of the day, Doctor. In the mornings, it’s a little better, but by evening… it’s quite noticeable. And it feels… heavy, if that makes sense. Like it’s full of water. I do try to put my feet up when I can, but it doesn't seem to help much.
DOCTOR: “Heavy,” you say. Right. And have you noticed any pain associated with this swelling?
PATIENT: Not exactly pain, Doctor. More like… a dull ache. It’s not sharp, and it’s not constant. It's just… uncomfortable, especially when I walk. And my leg feels warm to the touch, if that helps. I haven’t taken my temperature, though. I don't know if that’s important?
DOCTOR: Please, if you’ll lie down on the table. I need to have a look at this leg. And yes, temperature can be important. We'll get to that.
PATIENT: Alright, Doctor. Here we go. Is there anything specific I should be doing?
DOCTOR: Just relax. I’m assessing the extent of the edema, checking for any tenderness, and observing the skin’s appearance. Hmm. Yes, there is significant pitting edema present. And the skin is warmer than the right leg. Dorsalis pedis pulse… present, but somewhat diminished. Capillary refill… a little slow.
PATIENT: Oh, dear. That doesn’t sound very good, does it? Diminished and slow… I’m not sure what all of that means, but it doesn’t sound promising. Is it something serious, Doctor? I’m a bit worried now.
DOCTOR: Now, now. Let’s not jump to conclusions. It could be a number of things. We need to consider deep vein thrombosis, given the swelling and warmth. It’s also possible it’s simply a manifestation of your atrial fibrillation, affecting circulation. I'm going to order a D-dimer test and a venous ultrasound to rule out a blood clot. Do you have any allergies to contrast dye?
PATIENT: Contrast dye? Oh… I don't think so. I’ve never had any tests like that before, so I haven't had any dye or anything. I don't think I'm allergic to anything, but I haven't really paid much attention. I do get a little itchy sometimes, but that’s just from nettles in the garden, I expect. Would the test hurt, Doctor?
DOCTOR: Nettles. Right. The ultrasound itself won’t hurt. It’s non-invasive. The D-dimer is just a blood draw. Standard procedure. I’m also going to review your medication list. Are you currently taking any diuretics for your atrial fibrillation?
PATIENT: Oh, yes! Um… let me think. The doctor prescribed something… a water tablet, I think they called it. Furosemide? Is that right? I take one every morning. It helps with the swelling sometimes, but it hasn’t been working very well lately, which is why I came in. I’m afraid I’m not very good with remembering names of things, Doctor.
DOCTOR: Furosemide. Adequate dosage, it appears. It seems we’ve covered the basics. Now, while we await the results of the tests, I suggest elevating your leg whenever possible and wearing compression stockings. Do you have any questions for me before I finish here?
PATIENT: Compression stockings… alright, I can manage that. And elevating my leg… yes, I'll try my best. Um… … Will the tests take long? And what if it is a blood clot, Doctor? Is that very serious? I’m a bit frightened, to be honest. I just want to get back to normal, you know?
DOCTOR: The tests should be completed within a few hours. As for a blood clot… it can be serious, yes. But we are being proactive. If it is a blood clot, we’ll discuss anticoagulation therapy. Now, I’m going to order the tests and send you to the lab. And please, try not to worry unnecessarily. Most likely it’s just a side effect of your arrhythmia. Here is the lab requisition and the prescription for the compression stockings. Do you understand?
PATIENT: Yes, Doctor. I understand. Arrhythmia… side effect… compression stockings… Thank you. I’ll go to the lab now. Is there anything else I need to know before I go?
DOCTOR: No, that will be all. And please, try to rest when you can. .