DOCTOR: Good morning, Mr. Skarbek. I’m Dr. Fourney. So, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Good morning, Doctor. It’s good to meet you. Well, it’s about some paperwork I need to get sorted. My daughter… she’s trying to get her husband settled here permanently, you see. And I understand there are shots, or… vaccinations, he needs for that to happen. I’m trying to help her with all the requirements. I’m a bit lost on what exactly he needs, to be honest.
DOCTOR: Right. Immigration paperwork. It's… common. And yes, there are required vaccinations. It's good you're getting this sorted out proactively. Let’s see if I can clarify things. First, do you have his medical records with you?
PATIENT: No, ma’am, I don’t. He just arrived a few months ago. She’s been collecting what she can, but I don’t believe she has a full record yet. Mostly just what the airline needed for him to get here. Would a doctor in his home country be the best place to get them? I’m not sure how this all works.
DOCTOR: Well, that complicates things. Ideally, yes, records from his home country are best. But those can be… difficult to obtain, shall we say. We can certainly try to work with what you have, but it may mean repeating some vaccinations just to be certain. Do you know where exactly he's coming from?
PATIENT: He’s from… let me think… Honduras. Yes, Honduras. A small village outside of Tegucigalpa, I believe. She told me it's a bit hard to get official records from there, even for her. She’s a good girl, tries hard, but this is a bit beyond her, and frankly, beyond me too. I just want to make sure he’s healthy and gets everything done right.
DOCTOR: Honduras… right. Yes, obtaining records can be… challenging. Okay. Well, we'll need to start with a basic assessment to see what vaccinations he definitely needs. And we’ll need to document everything thoroughly. Do you happen to know if he’s had any vaccinations at all – even as a child?
PATIENT: That’s a good question. She mentioned something about some shots when he was little, but she wasn’t sure what they were for. It was a long time ago, and the records weren’t kept very well, she said. She did say he had a fever when he was a baby, and the local healer gave him something, but that wasn’t a doctor, you understand. I really don’t know what he’s had. Sorry I can't be more helpful.
DOCTOR: Alright. That's… what I suspected. Well, in that case, we'll have to proceed as if he's not vaccinated at all. We'll need to do a full series of vaccinations required for immigration, and I’ll document everything meticulously. We will start with a physical exam, just to make sure there aren’t any immediate contraindications. I’ll listen to his heart and lungs, check his reflexes, the usual. Do you have any allergies we should be aware of?
PATIENT: No, ma’am, not that we know of. He’s always been a healthy boy, as far as we know. She said he’s never had any serious illnesses, just the little fevers when he was small. And he doesn't take any medications, either. Just… normal, healthy. I suppose. That’s good news, isn’t it? Being healthy to start with.
DOCTOR: It is… preferable. Alright. Let's get started with the exam then. Please have him remove his shirt and shoes. I’ll need to listen to his heart and lungs, and I'll check his general condition. We’ll take it from there. I’m going to need you to be honest with me about everything, even if it seems unimportant. It all matters.
PATIENT: Yes, ma’am. Of course. Honesty is the best policy, as they say. He’s a little shy, but he’ll cooperate. I’ll just go get him then, and he’ll be right back. It might take him a minute to change.
DOCTOR: Very well. Take your time. And please, remind him to relax. It's just a routine exam. I'll be ready when you are.
PATIENT: .
DOCTOR: Immigration paperwork… Honestly. Alright, let’s get this over with.