DOCTOR: Good morning, Mr. Baide. Welcome. I'm Dr. Smetak. Now, tell me, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Ugh, morning. Look, I don’t have all day, you know. It’s this…hand. Shakes. Been happening for a bit. Not sure why it’s happening, frankly. Probably just old age. Is that what this is about? Just getting old?
DOCTOR: I understand. It can be frustrating when things start to change as we get older. But we want to rule out anything else that might be going on, just to be sure. "A bit" is a little vague, though. Could you tell me when you first noticed the shaking, and has it been getting worse?
PATIENT: Worse? I… honestly, I don't keep track of these things. A few months, maybe? It comes and goes. When I'm trying to…hold a fork, usually. Or sign something. It’s embarrassing, that’s what it is. I used to have a steady hand. Directed movies, you know. Big pictures. Doesn't matter now. Just…goes away on its own. Look, is there a quick fix for this? Because I have things to do.
DOCTOR: Directing movies, that's wonderful! A steady hand is certainly important for that. Okay, so it's mostly when you're using your hand for precise movements like eating or writing. Does it happen with other activities?
PATIENT: Other activities? Hmm... Not really. I mean, I don't do much these days. Mostly sit around. Watch the news. Sometimes… try to remember things. Doesn't work so well, but that's a different problem. The shaking, it's just when I try to do something delicate. Like threading a needle. Though I haven't done that in years. Why are you asking so many questions? Is it serious? Just tell me if it's serious!
DOCTOR: I apologize if I'm asking a lot of questions, Mr. Baide. It's just important for me to get a clear picture of what's going on. And no, I don't have enough information yet to say if it's serious, that’s why I ask. But we will get to the bottom of this. Now, let's talk about other things. Have you noticed any stiffness in your hand or fingers, besides the shaking?
PATIENT: Stiffness? Now that you mention it… yeah, maybe a little. In the mornings, mostly. Takes a bit to get them moving. Like an old rusty hinge, you know? But it goes away. Everything goes away eventually, doesn't it? Look, are you going to poke and prod at me? I don’t like doctors poking and prodding. Can’t we just get a pill or something? A little something to calm the hand? This is ridiculous.
DOCTOR: I understand your reluctance, Mr. Baide. I’ll keep the poking and prodding to a minimum, I promise. But a quick physical exam will help me get a better sense of what's going on, and it will help me determine the best course of action. It won't take long. First, let me just check your reflexes and muscle strength. Would that be alright?
PATIENT: Ugh, fine. Get it over with. But be gentle, alright? I'm not a young man anymore. And don't expect me to be able to do any fancy exercises. I haven't done a push-up in… well, a long time. Just hurry up, please. I have a lunch appointment. Though honestly, I probably won’t be able to eat with this shaking. .
DOCTOR: Alright, Mr. Baide. Just relax your arm for me. Now, can you tap your finger to your thumb a few times?