DOCTOR: Good morning, Mr. Schlatterer. I am Dr. Mutnick. Please, state the reason for your visit today. And try to be concise; my schedule is rather full.
PATIENT: Yes, yes. Doctor… Mutnick, you say? Honestly. Workplace stress. Burnout. It’s… quite obvious, isn’t it? All these young people these days… no respect for the classics. It’s exhausting, constantly correcting their… interpretations. I suppose that’s what you’re here for. To hear an old man complain. Get on with it, if you will.
DOCTOR: “Workplace stress,” you say. While I appreciate a succinct description, Mr. Schlatterer, it lacks… detail. Can you elaborate on where this stress originates?
PATIENT: Elaborate? Really? Where does it originate… It originates in the library, Doctor. Where else would it originate? I am a Library Science Teacher, postsecondary, as your… chart should indicate. It’s the students, mostly. The sheer… lack of dedication. They don’t value books anymore. They want everything… simplified. Condescending, the lot of them. Is that detailed enough for you? Honestly.
DOCTOR: Yes, I see your profession. And while I appreciate your… passion, Mr. Schlatterer, simply stating the source of your stress is insufficient. For a proper assessment, I need to understand the nature of the stress. Are you experiencing any physical symptoms?
PATIENT: Physical symptoms? Good heavens. As if I have time for… physical ailments. I suppose… a bit of fatigue, perhaps. And a… a tightness in the chest, sometimes. But that’s likely just indigestion. I had a rather rich dinner last night. It’s the mental strain, Doctor. The constant battle against… ignorance. That's what’s truly debilitating. Are we quite finished? I have a very important cataloguing project waiting for me.
DOCTOR: “Tightness in the chest,” you say. While you attribute it to indigestion, we cannot dismiss cardiac concerns, Mr. Schlatterer. Especially given your age. Do you experience this tightness with exertion?
PATIENT: Exertion? Doctor, I teach! A gentle discourse with… undergraduates does not constitute exertion. I occasionally have to… raise my voice to be heard over their incessant chatter, but that’s hardly a strenuous activity. Honestly, you’re making a mountain out of a molehill. I assure you, my heart is perfectly… adequate. It has endured far worse than a few… impudent students. Is there a point to this interrogation? Or are we simply going to dissect my digestive system all morning?
DOCTOR: Very well. Let’s proceed. Have you noticed any shortness of breath, palpitations, or any pain radiating to your arm, neck, or jaw along with this “tightness”?
PATIENT: Shortness of breath… no, not particularly. Palpitations… perhaps a little fluttering sometimes, but I attribute that to too much coffee. And pain… no, nothing radiating. Although… there was a slight ache in my left shoulder yesterday, but I simply assumed it was from reaching for a particularly heavy volume. Honestly, these questions are rather… impertinent. I fail to see how any of this pertains to my… professional dissatisfaction. I’m a teacher, not a… a patient!
DOCTOR: I see. And do you experience this shoulder ache with any specific movements, or is it constant?
PATIENT: Constant? No, of course not! It comes and goes, as aches do. When I… reach for a book, perhaps. Or when I’m… straightening the shelves. It’s hardly a debilitating affliction, Doctor. I’ve endured far worse discomfort in my lifetime. Honestly, this is becoming rather… tedious. Are we nearing the end of this… assessment? I have a rather important cataloguing project awaiting my attention. I assure you, it is far more pressing than discussing my shoulder. .
DOCTOR: Very well. Lung sounds are clear bilaterally. Heart rate is regular, though slightly elevated. Palpation of the left shoulder reveals some tenderness, but no crepitus. Blood pressure is 148/92. Given your elevated blood pressure and report of chest tightness, I recommend a baseline EKG and blood work to rule out any cardiac issues. I'll also order a chest X-ray to assess your lungs.