DOCTOR: Alright, Mr. Aluia, good morning. So, you're here today... tell me, what brings you in?
PATIENT: Good morning to you too, Doc. Well, it's these bumps on my legs. They're on my shins, both of 'em. They're red and kinda… hard, you know? And they hurt. Not all the time, but when I bump 'em, or if I press on 'em. It's been going on for a couple weeks now, I think. Maybe a little longer. I'm not so good with dates these days.
DOCTOR: Mm-hmm. Bumps on both shins, red, hard, and painful to the touch. A couple of weeks, you said?
PATIENT: Yeah, about that long. My wife, Elena, she noticed 'em first, actually. She's always telling me to look at things. I don't usually pay attention 'til it really bothers me, and these… they're starting to bother me when I'm working. I do a lot of lifting at the warehouse, and they get knocked around sometimes.
DOCTOR: Right. Lifting at the warehouse. And Elena noticed them first, you say. Well, it’s good she’s attentive. Do they appear suddenly, or have they been gradually increasing in number, Mr. Aluia?
PATIENT: Gradually, I think. It wasn't like, bam, all of a sudden there they were. More like... one or two showed up, and then slowly, a few more. It's hard to say exactly. I don't really look at my legs, you know? I just kinda use 'em.
DOCTOR: I see. And have you noticed any changes in your skin other than these bumps?
PATIENT: Hmm. Let me think... not really. My skin's always kinda dry, especially in the winter. But no, no rashes or anything else. Just these red… things. They don't itch, though. That's good, right? I hate when things itch.
DOCTOR: No itching is… preferable, yes. Alright. And have you had any injuries to your legs recently?
PATIENT: Injuries? Not that I can remember. I get little bumps and scrapes at work sometimes, but nothing major. Nothing that would cause something like this. I mean, I’m careful. Well, as careful as an old man can be lifting boxes all day.
DOCTOR: "Old man," you say. Right. Well, let’s have a look at these bumps then. If you could just sit up on the examination table for me, please?
PATIENT: Oh, sure, sure. No problem. There they are. You can see 'em pretty good, I guess. Red and kinda… raised. Hurt a little when I poke 'em.
DOCTOR: Alright. They are quite raised, as you say. And firm to the touch. There’s no warmth or redness extending beyond the immediate area of the bumps. No broken skin, thankfully. Have you had anything like this before, Mr. Aluia?
PATIENT: No, never. Not like this. I've had cuts and scrapes, bruises, you know, the usual things from work. But these… these are different. They don’t look like anything I’ve ever seen before. And they just don't feel right.
DOCTOR: Alright. Based on what you've told me and the physical exam, it appears you may have shin splints with a component of trauma. Though, the bumps are a bit more pronounced than typical. We can rule out some other possibilities, just to be sure. I'm going to order some blood work – a complete blood count and a basic metabolic panel. And an X-ray of both legs to ensure there aren't any underlying fractures. It's always best to be thorough, especially with persistent pain.
PATIENT: Blood work and X-rays? Oh. Okay. Sounds… serious. Is it something bad, Doc? I just want to get back to work, you know? Elena worries enough as it is.
DOCTOR: Mr. Aluia, please don’t jump to conclusions. It's standard procedure to rule out anything more serious. It's most likely just aggravated shin splints, perhaps with some minor bruising from work. But we need to confirm that. The blood work will check for infection and inflammation, and the X-ray will ensure there’s no stress fracture. We'll get the results back within a couple of days, and then we can discuss a treatment plan. In the meantime, I recommend rest, ice, and elevation. And avoid lifting anything heavy, if possible.
PATIENT: Rest and ice… Elena will be happy to hear that. She's always telling me to take it easy. Okay, rest, ice, elevation, and no heavy lifting. I can do that. Where do I go for the blood work and X-ray? Is it here at the clinic?
DOCTOR: Yes, the lab is just down the hall, Room 203. And the X-ray technician is in Room 105. They have your insurance information already, but it’s always wise to bring your card just in case. The receptionist will give you the necessary paperwork. Once they’ve completed the tests, the results will be sent directly to me. I’ll call you as soon as I have them. Do you have any other questions for me at this time, Mr. Aluia?
PATIENT: No, I think that covers it. Rest, ice, get the tests done… and wait for your call. Thank you, Doc. I appreciate you taking the time to look at my legs.
DOCTOR: Very well. Get some rest, Mr. Aluia. And try not to worry too much. We'll get to the bottom of this. You can get dressed now.
PATIENT: Okay. Thank you again, Doc. I’ll see you when you call.
DOCTOR: Alright. Goodbye, Mr. Aluia.