DOCTOR: Alright, Mr. Brege. So, you're here today… what brings you in?
PATIENT: Well, doc, it's this fever. Keeps comin' back. It ain't nothin' serious, I don't think, but it's botherin' me. It's been on and off for, oh, maybe a month now? I just wanna get it checked out, make sure it ain't somethin' I gotta worry about. I got things to do, ya know?
DOCTOR: A month, you say?
PATIENT: Yep. A month, give or take a few days. It usually lasts a couple of days, then goes away for a week or so, then bam, it's back again. Not super high, mind you. Just…uncomfortable. Enough to make an old man tired, that’s for sure. I take some Tylenol, helps a little. But it keeps happenin’.
DOCTOR: And what temperature are we talking about, roughly, when you take it?
PATIENT: Oh, jeez, doc, I don't really keep track, you know? I just feel warm, kinda shaky. My wife, Elena, she checks sometimes. I think the last time she said it was around 100, maybe 100.5. But she ain't a nurse or nothin’, just usin’ one of them thermometers from the drugstore. It's probably lower, honestly. I just know I feel lousy when it gets goin'.
DOCTOR: Right. And besides the fever and feeling tired, are you experiencing any other symptoms?
PATIENT: Let me think… not really. No cough, no sniffles. No aches, nothin’ like that. Just…tired. And maybe a little weak. I eat okay, but I don't have much of an appetite when the fever hits. Oh! And I get a little sweaty, especially at night. That's about it, I think. I’m pretty sure. My memory ain't what it used to be, ya know? Elena would probably remember more, but she couldn't make it today. Work stuff.
DOCTOR: Do you have any chronic medical conditions – diabetes, heart problems, anything like that?
PATIENT: No, doc, nothin' like that. I was a pretty healthy fella for most of my life. I used to play softball, you know? Had a bad knee a few years back, needed some fixin', but that’s it. Just…old age, I guess. That's what my wife says, anyway. And I ain’t insured, so I try to avoid the doctors as much as possible. It's expensive, ya know? Just want this fever gone.
DOCTOR: Alright. And any surgeries in the past?
PATIENT: Just the knee, like I said. About five years ago. They went in and cleaned up some cartilage, patched it up. That’s it. Never had nothin’ else done. I’ve been lucky, I guess. Elena always said I was tough as nails. Though this fever is makin’ me feel pretty weak, even for an old man. Is this somethin' serious, doc? You think I need tests or somethin'?
DOCTOR: We’ll see. Let’s get a basic physical exam done, check your vitals, listen to your heart and lungs. It’s standard procedure. Then we can talk about potential causes. Don't worry too much just yet.
PATIENT: Okay, okay. Sounds good, doc. Whatever you think is best. Just… try to be quick, alright? I got appointments later today. Elena’s gonna be mad if I’m late again. Just… get this over with, and tell me what I gotta do. I'm ready when you are.
DOCTOR: Alright. Please lie back on the examination table. We’ll start with your temperature, pulse, and blood pressure. Then I'll listen to your heart and lungs. Please remove your shirt, and I'll listen to your back as well.
PATIENT: Right. Okay. Here we go. Hope it ain’t nothin’ too bad. This old body’s been through enough, ya know? Just wanna get back to normal, that's all. Just… try to be gentle, doc. Thanks.
DOCTOR: Okay. Blood pressure is 130/80. Pulse is 78. Lungs sound a little quiet, but nothing concerning at the moment. Abdomen is normal. Do you have any swelling in your ankles or feet?
PATIENT: Swelling? Hmm… Not really, no. Maybe a little puffy sometimes, but I figured that was just from bein' on ‘em all day. I’m on my feet a lot, ya know? Chiropractor work. Always adjustin’ people, gettin’ them lined up straight. But no real swelling, no. Just…tired feet. Like I said, I’m an old man. Things puff up, ya know? Is this gonna cost me a fortune, doc? I ain’t got much money, and Elena… well, she worries.
DOCTOR: Alright. Have you traveled anywhere recently?
PATIENT: Traveled? No, no travelin'. Not since we went to Florida five years ago. And that was just for a week. Haven’t been out of the state since then. I mostly just stick around here, workin’ and takin’ care of the house. Elena does most of the travelin', for her job. She goes to conferences and stuff. Me? I’m a homebody. This fever just came on outta nowhere, doc. I ain’t been nowhere. Just…workin', sleepin', and now this. Is this somethin' I caught? From someone at work? Oh jeez... I hope not. I don’t want to get nobody else sick.
DOCTOR: Any recent changes in your diet?
PATIENT: Changes in my diet? Hmm... not really. Elena’s been tryin’ to get me to eat more vegetables, but I’m a simple man, doc. I like my steak and potatoes. She slips some broccoli in sometimes, but that’s about it. I haven’t started eatin’ nothin’ new or nothin’. Same old stuff. Elena cooks good, ya know? I just…eat what she puts in front of me. Not much change there. It’s been the same for years. I’m a creature of habit, doc. I like things the way they are. Just…this fever. It’s throwin' everything off.
DOCTOR: Alright. It sounds like a mild viral infection. Probably nothing to worry about, but we'll run some basic bloodwork just to be safe. I'm going to order a complete blood count and a basic metabolic panel. That’ll check your white blood cell count and kidney function. We'll see what that shows. But honestly, I think it’s just a bug you picked up. Rest, fluids, and Tylenol. That’s what I’d recommend.
PATIENT: Bloodwork, huh? Okay, alright. Fine. Whatever you think is best, doc. How much is that gonna cost? I gotta ask. Elena’s gonna kill me if I rack up a big bill. Just… try to keep it reasonable, alright? I ain’t made of money. I just wanna get rid of this fever and get back to work. Is there anything else I gotta do? Or can I go now? I got appointments, ya know? And I really don’t wanna be late again.
DOCTOR: The bloodwork will be about $150. As for other things, I’ll write you a prescription for some Tylenol, even though you’re already taking it. And please, if your fever gets worse, or you develop any new symptoms - like a cough, chest pain, or difficulty breathing – go to the emergency room immediately. Don't wait. The nurse will draw the blood for you before you leave. Any questions?
PATIENT: $150… Okay, alright. That's… manageable, I guess. Hopefully it doesn’t show nothin’ serious. And yeah, I’ll watch for those other symptoms. Cough, chest pain, breathin’ trouble… I got it. Elena always tells me to watch out for those. She's a worrier, that one. I think that’s all my questions, doc. Just… try to get this over with quick, alright? I gotta go. Thanks… I guess.
DOCTOR: .