DOCTOR: Good morning, Mr. Trendler. I am Dr. Jules. Now, please tell me, in your own words, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Morning to you too. Look here, I don't got all day. It's this body, alright? It ain't what it used to be. Skin hangin’ loose, feelin’…empty, you understand? Like a balloon somebody let the air outta. I want it fixed. Simple as that. Don't need a whole story, just want it tightened up.
DOCTOR: “Tightened up,” you say?
PATIENT: Yes! Tightened up. Like a drum, you know? When I was younger, strong, buildin’ things... Now? Flabby. It's embarrassing. I used to be somebody. Don't need you explainin' what 'tightened up' means, I told you what I want. Is this gonna take long?
DOCTOR: Mr. Trendler, with all due respect, “tightened up” is not a medical term. I need specifics. Are you experiencing muscle weakness?
PATIENT: Muscle weakness? No! I can still swing a hammer, alright? Though it ain't as easy as it was. It’s…the outside. The skin! It's the skin that's the problem. Like old cloth, see? Loose and wrinkly. Not strong like it used to be. You understand that much? I don't need a lecture on muscles, I need it fixed. I paid good money for this appointment, you know.
DOCTOR: So, you’re concerned about the appearance of your skin… loss of elasticity, wrinkles. And you want a…cosmetic procedure?
PATIENT: Cosmetic… that's a fancy word for fixin' it, isn't it? Yes. Fix it. Make it look…decent again. I don’t wanna look like a prune. Is that so hard to understand? I used to have women lookin’ at me, now… they look through me. So yes, cosmetic. Whatever you call it. Just get on with it. What can you do? And how much is it gonna cost? I ain't got money to waste.
DOCTOR: I see. Well, Mr. Trendler, there are several options, though I must be frank, at your age, dramatic results are…unlikely. We could discuss a facelift, but the risks are considerable. Or perhaps dermal fillers, though those are temporary and offer limited improvement. Do you have any underlying medical conditions?
PATIENT: Underlying… look, I had a bit of the flu last year, alright? Nothing serious. Doctor said it was just a bad one. Otherwise, I'm strong as an ox, mostly. I work hard, eat good food. I don’t sit around complainin’. What are these… “risks” you talkin’ about? I don't want nothin' happenin' to me! I need to know before you start cuttin’ or fillin’ or whatever you do. And how long will I be out of work? I got things to do, you know. Things.
DOCTOR: Mr. Trendler, a facelift carries risks of infection, nerve damage, scarring, and hematoma. Fillers can cause bruising, swelling, and, rarely, vascular occlusion. As for being “out of work”, that depends on the procedure. A facelift requires several weeks of recovery. I'm accessing your EHR now… I see here you are being treated for hypertension. This significantly increases the risks associated with any surgical procedure. Have you been compliant with your medication?
PATIENT: Hypertension? That's just a little high blood pressure! Doc gave me some pills, I take 'em…most of the time. Sometimes I forget, alright? I'm an old man! It ain't like I'm runnin' a marathon. And I don’t need you readin’ off my medical history like I’m a child. So it's too risky, is what you're sayin'? You're tellin' me an old man can't even get his skin fixed? What's the point of havin' money if you can't even do that? I thought doctors were supposed to help people. .
DOCTOR: Mr. Trendler, given your medical history and frankly, unrealistic expectations, I do not believe a cosmetic procedure is advisable at this time. I strongly recommend focusing on managing your hypertension and maintaining a healthy lifestyle. I will not be proceeding with any elective surgery. Is there anything else I can assist you with today?