DOCTOR: Right, Mr. Parascandola. Sixty years old, is it?
PATIENT: Yeah, that's right. Sixty years come and gone, doc. Feels like yesterday, honestly. But the foot… the foot feels much older than sixty.
DOCTOR: Yes, well, time marches on. So, this foot… what brings you in today about it?
PATIENT: Well, it’s been swelling up, see? Started a few days ago, just a little puffiness. Thought it was nothin', maybe I just stood too long. But it keeps gettin' bigger, and it kinda… aches. Not a sharp pain, more like a dull throb, especially at night. Makes it hard to get a good shoe on, you know? And walkin' ain't easy, either.
DOCTOR: Right, swelling… aching… night pain. Any injury?
PATIENT: No, no injury that I recall. Didn’t twist it, didn’t drop nothin' on it, nothin' like that. Just… woke up one morning and it was a bit bigger. I’m usually pretty careful, you know? I don’t go climbin' mountains or anything. Mostly just walkin' to the store, a bit of gardenin'. Nothing strenuous.
DOCTOR: Gardenin’, you say?
PATIENT: Yeah, small garden. Tomatoes, some peppers, a little bit of okra. Keeps me busy, you know? Nothing fancy, just enough for me. I mostly sit on a little stool when I'm workin' in it, though. Don’t do a lot of diggin' anymore. Back ain't what it used to be, either, come to think of it… but that ain’t what’s botherin’ me right now. It's this foot.
DOCTOR: Alright. And you said it's been a few days?
PATIENT: Yep. Started Sunday, I think it was. So, three days now. Maybe four? Time kinda blends together when you’re on your own, you know? But definitely not a week. I’d remember that, it's gettin’ harder to ignore. And like I said, it's been slowly gettin' worse each day. Not suddenly huge, just… gradually puffier.
DOCTOR: Any redness?
PATIENT: Hmm, let me think… no, not really red. It’s more… kinda pale, I guess? Maybe a little bluish around the ankle bone? It’s hard to say for sure, I don’t have the best eyesight these days. It's just… swollen. And feels warm to the touch, if that makes any sense.
DOCTOR: Warm, you say. Alright. Let's have a look at it then. Please, have a seat on the exam table and take your shoe and sock off. Don’t bother with the lotion or anything. Just the foot, please.
PATIENT: Okay, sure, no problem. Here we go… bit of a struggle these days, gettin' these old shoes off. There you are. Not pretty, is it?
DOCTOR: Mm-hmm. Yes, swelling is present. And warm to the touch, as you said. Any pain right now when I press here?
PATIENT: Ouch! Yeah, that’s a bit tender, doc. Not awful, but definitely feels it. More on the inside of the ankle, right… about there. Not like a sharp stab, just… a dull ache that shoots up a little bit.
DOCTOR: Alright. And you haven’t noticed any numbness or tingling in your foot or toes?
PATIENT: No, no numbness or tingling. Everything feels… normal, as far as feelin' goes. Just swollen and achy, like I said. I can wiggle my toes okay, see? A little stiff, maybe, but I can move 'em. No pins and needles or anything like that. Just the swelling is the main thing, and the discomfort.
DOCTOR: Alright. Any history of blood clots?
PATIENT: Blood clots? Oh, goodness, no! Never had anythin' like that. Never been in the hospital for nothin’ serious, really. Just a bit of the flu here and there. I don’t even know what a blood clot feels like. Is that… is that what you’re thinkin' it might be?
DOCTOR: It's just… routine. We have to rule things out. Any family history of blood clots, then?
PATIENT: Hmm. Let me think… My sister, Aisha, she had somethin' in her leg a long time ago, when she was older. She was livin' in Minneapolis then, and had to go to the hospital. She said it was… a bad pain, and her leg got really swollen. She had to take medicine for it, for a long time, I think. But that was years ago, and she’s fine now. Apart from that, not that I know of. We don’t really talk about medical things much, in my family. It's… bad luck to talk about sickness, you know?
DOCTOR: Alright. And you said you’re not insured?
PATIENT: No, sir, not insured. Never been able to afford it, honestly. It's… expensive. I try to stay healthy, you know? Eat right, walk when I can, but sometimes things happen. I just hoped this was somethin’ simple, somethin’ that would go away on its own. I don’t want to run up a big bill I can’t pay.
DOCTOR: Alright. Well, based on what you’ve told me, it could be a number of things. Sprain, strain, possibly some early arthritis. It’s unlikely to be serious, but we need to rule things out. I’m going to order an x-ray, just to be safe. And I’ll want you to get some blood work done. But given your insurance situation… it’s going to be expensive.
PATIENT: Expensive? How expensive are we talkin’, doc? I mean, can I even afford an x-ray and blood work? I’m on a fixed income, you know? I got rent to pay, food to buy… Is there… is there any way to get some help with the cost? Or maybe just do the x-ray for now? I really just want to know what's wrong with my foot.
DOCTOR: Look, I’m just being thorough. The x-ray will be… around $200, maybe $300 depending on the facility. Blood work… another $100 or so. I can give you a referral to a specialist, but that'll cost even more. Frankly, if it's just a sprain, it’ll heal on its own with rest, ice, and elevation. I recommend you try that for a week and if it’s not better, then consider the x-ray. I have other patients to see.
PATIENT: So… you're sayin’ don't bother with the tests? Just… wait and see? But what if it is somethin’ serious? What if it gets worse while I’m waitin’? I don't wanna risk it gettin' infected or somethin'... And $300 is a lot of money, doc. That’s almost a month’s worth of groceries. Maybe… maybe I should just wrap it up tight and try to stay off it. But I need to go to the store, you know? I can’t just stay home for a week… .
DOCTOR: Look, I’ve given you my recommendation. Rest, ice, elevation. If it doesn’t improve, then consider the tests. I really need to see my next patient. Is there anything else?