DOCTOR: Alright, Mr. Coby, have a seat. So, what brings you in today?
PATIENT: Well, Doctor Pehrson, it’s this heat. Can't stand it anymore, I tell ya. Always been able to handle a bit of warm weather, lived in Nepal most of my life and all, but this… this is different. Makes a body feel right awful, just awful. I just feel… overheated, constantly. It's not like I'm doing anything strenuous, either. Just pottering about, you know, painting a fence, bit of fixing here and there.
DOCTOR: Right. “Overheated.” Okay. And how long has this been going on, this… feeling awful?
PATIENT: Oh, goodness. Let me think. It started… probably around June, maybe? Definitely before July. It just got worse and worse, slowly, you know? It wasn’t sudden. Didn't happen overnight. Just... a creeping feeling of being too warm. Even inside with the fan on, it doesn't help much. Honestly, it's getting ridiculous. A man should be able to handle a bit of sunshine.
DOCTOR: So, June… a gradual onset. And you said “fan on.” Is that the only thing you’ve been doing to try and cool down?
PATIENT: Well, of course I drink water. Don't be silly. And I try to stay in the shade when I’m working outside. It’s not like I’m wandering around in the desert sun all day. Though, honestly, even the shade isn't enough these days. It's a bit frustrating, if you want to know the truth. I used to be a strong man, could work all day in the heat without a problem. Now… now I feel like an old woman.
DOCTOR: Right. And are you taking anything for this?
PATIENT: Taking anything? For being hot? Now you’re talking nonsense, Doctor. What would I take for being hot? A cold shower? I don’t need pills for a bit of warm weather! Though my neighbor, old Mrs. Gable, she's always talking about some herbal tea she drinks for everything… but I haven't tried that nonsense. I just want to feel normal again, that’s all.
DOCTOR: Okay, okay. Let’s just go through some basics here. Any other symptoms besides feeling “overheated”?
PATIENT: Symptoms? Well… I suppose I've been a bit more tired lately. Not like sick tired, just… worn out. And my ankles… they swell up a bit at the end of the day, now that I think about it. Always been able to walk a good mile, but lately… not so much. Not like I’m running marathons or anything, but it’s noticeable, you know?
DOCTOR: Let me have a listen to your heart and lungs, and we’ll take a look at those ankles. Just relax. Pulse is a little fast... and a bit irregular. Okay, show me your ankles, Mr. Coby.
PATIENT: Oh, alright. There they are. See? Not huge, but definitely puffier than they used to be. I thought maybe I just twisted something, but it doesn't hurt or anything. Just… swollen. And like I said, I'm getting tired easier. A man needs his strength, you know, especially when you're doing honest work.
DOCTOR: Hmm. Swelling, fatigue, fast pulse… Okay, I'm going to order some blood work. We need to rule out a few things. It could be something simple, but we need to be sure. Don't worry, it's just routine.
PATIENT: Routine, you say? Well, that's good, I suppose. As long as it's not something serious. I haven't got time for being poorly. Got fences to paint and roofs to fix, you know? Who's going to do all that if I'm laid up in bed? Will this blood work take long? And will I have to come back again and again? I haven't got all day for doctor's appointments.
DOCTOR: It’s a standard panel, Mr. Coby. Shouldn’t take more than a few business days to get the results. And yes, you will need to come back to discuss them. That's how this works. I'll have the nurse draw the blood before you leave. Is there anything else you want to tell me before I finish up here?
PATIENT: Well… now that you mention it… my appetite hasn’t been quite the same lately. Not that I'm not eating, just… not as hungry. Used to be able to polish off a good plate of dal bhat, no problem. Now, it just feels… heavy. And I've been a bit more short of breath when I walk up the hill to the store. A little wheezy, you know? It's probably nothing, just getting old, I suppose. But thought I should mention it, seeing as you're asking.
DOCTOR: Right. Loss of appetite, shortness of breath… Okay. Look, Mr. Coby, honestly, it sounds like there's quite a bit going on here. I’m ordering an EKG along with the blood work. And, frankly, I think a referral to a cardiologist isn't a bad idea. The nurse will explain everything. Don't worry too much. We'll figure it out. Now, if you’ll excuse me, I have other patients to see.
PATIENT: Cardiologist? Now hold on just a minute! A heart doctor? What for? I just feel a bit warm and tired! I'm a strong man, Doctor. Always been healthy as a horse. This seems like a bit of an overreaction, if you ask me. What exactly are you looking for? And are you sure this isn’t just… stress? I've been working hard, you know. A bit of rest is all I need, I reckon. .
DOCTOR: Mr. Coby, with all due respect, you’re presenting with multiple symptoms that warrant further investigation. We're ruling things out. The nurse will schedule you for an EKG and bloodwork, and I'll send a referral to cardiology. I strongly advise you to follow up. That's my professional opinion. Now, if you’ll excuse me...