DOCTOR: Alright, Louine, good morning. I’m Dr. Billman. So, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Hmph. Good morning to you. It’s this foot, Doctor. This foot. Been botherin’ me for weeks now, and it’s just gettin’ worse. It's a sore, see? A nasty, painful sore. And frankly, I expect you to do something about it. I haven't got all day, you know.
DOCTOR: Right, a sore on your foot. Weeks now, getting worse. I understand you’re in pain and want me to take a look. And I will. Just need to get a bit more information first, if you don’t mind. Can you tell me a little more about it?
PATIENT: Oh, “a little more”? Really? What more is there to tell? It hurts! It's on the bottom of my foot, right here . It’s red and…well, it looks awful. And it’s not healin’. I’ve put bandages on it, of course. I'm not completely helpless, you know. But it just doesn't seem to be gettin’ better, despite my best efforts. I do have…the sugar problem, the doctor told me years ago. That probably has somethin' to do with it. It’s not like I don’t pay attention to what the doctors say.
DOCTOR: Alright, so it’s on the bottom of your foot, red, not healing despite bandages… and you mentioned a history of diabetes, or “sugar problem” as you put it. That’s good you remember that, it can definitely play a role in foot sores. Do you check your blood sugar regularly?
PATIENT: Check it? Heavens no. Do I look like someone who enjoys pokin’ themselves with needles? My husband used to, bless his soul, but that was years ago. He did all the fussin’ with that machine. I just told him what the doctor said and he took care of it. Now he’s gone, and I certainly am not about to start fiddlin’ with things I don’t understand. Honestly, Doctor, I just want this sore gone. It's interfering with my mahjong.
DOCTOR: Alright, no regular blood sugar checks. Okay. And when did you first notice this sore starting?
PATIENT: Oh, let me think… it must have been… around the time of my granddaughter’s birthday. She turned twelve, a perfectly dreadful age if you ask me. So, sometime in June, I suppose. Maybe the beginning of June. It started small, just a little redness, I thought it was a blister from my shoes. But it hasn't gotten better, and now it’s this awful, painful thing. I told you, Doctor, I haven't got all day to recount every detail of my life!
DOCTOR: Right, beginning of June. So, a couple of months now. And have you noticed any pus or drainage coming from it?
PATIENT: Pus? Drainage? Goodness gracious, what a question! Let me see… . Well, it's... damp. And sometimes it feels sticky. Is that drainage? I try to keep it clean, but it's not pleasant to look at, I assure you. It’s certainly not… clear. That much I can tell you. I do have a good eye for these things, you know. I used to be a scientist, after all. Though I doubt that means much to you.
DOCTOR: Alright, "damp" and "sticky". Okay. I'm going to take a quick look at it now, if that’s alright. Just need to examine it properly to see what we’re dealing with. It will only take a moment. And you were a scientist?
PATIENT: Hmph. Yes, a scientist. A proper one. Medical field, of course. Though I suppose nobody cares about that anymore. Do what you have to do, Doctor, but be gentle. It's very sensitive, and I haven’t got a high pain tolerance, despite what anyone might tell you. And don't be surprised if I ask a lot of questions. I’m used to observing things myself, not just having someone poke and prod.
DOCTOR: Okay. It's red, inflamed, and there's some… thickening of the skin around it. I see some moisture as you described. It is tender to the touch, I see you wincing. Based on what you’ve told me and the examination, it looks like you have a developing ulcer. It's not huge, but given your history of diabetes, and the fact it’s not healing, it's concerning. I need to rule out a possible infection. I’m going to need to send a swab to the lab to check for bacteria. Does that sound alright?
PATIENT: An ulcer? Good heavens. Well, that sounds dreadful, doesn’t it? And an infection? Honestly, Doctor, you’re not paintin' a very pretty picture. A swab, you say? What exactly does that involve? I don’t like the sound of that at all. Is it going to hurt? And how long will I have to wait for the results? I have mahjong tonight, you know. I can’t be stuck here all day.
DOCTOR: Alright. A swab is just a quick sample collection. I'll use a small cotton swab to gently collect some fluid from the sore. It shouldn’t be terribly painful, just a brief pinch, like a quick scrape. It's necessary to identify if there’s an infection present. The lab results usually take about 24-48 hours. We can get it sent off today, and I’ll call you with the results as soon as they come back. We can discuss treatment options then. In the meantime, it's very important to keep the area clean and dry. I'll give you specific instructions on how to do that. And avoid putting pressure on your foot as much as possible. Would that work for you?
PATIENT: Alright, alright. A quick pinch, you say? As long as it doesn’t take long. And 24 to 48 hours isn't completely unreasonable. But you better call me promptly, Doctor. I won't tolerate being kept waiting. And those instructions better be clear. I haven’t got time for complicated procedures. Clean and dry, you say? Fine. But don’t expect miracles. This foot is proving to be a stubborn case. Get on with it then, Doctor. Let’s get this over with.
DOCTOR: Alright. Just going to gently clean the area first. It might feel a little cool. And then I'll quickly collect the sample. Take a deep breath... Okay, all done. That was quick, wasn't it?
PATIENT: Quick for you, maybe. It still wasn't pleasant. Honestly, Doctor, you don't have a gentle touch. Now, are you quite finished poking and prodding? I have things to do, you know. And don't forget to call me promptly with those results. I expect a call before mahjong tonight, if at all possible. And those instructions, please. Let’s not waste any more time.
DOCTOR: Alright. I'll send this to the lab right away. Here are the instructions for wound care. Keep the area clean and dry. Wash it gently with mild soap and water once a day. Pat it dry with a clean towel. Then apply a non-stick bandage. Change the bandage daily, or if it gets wet or dirty. And avoid putting pressure on your foot as much as possible. Elevate it when you're sitting or lying down. And if you notice any increased redness, swelling, pain, or drainage, call the office immediately. Don't wait for my call. We need to rule out a worsening infection. I'll also note in your chart that you have a mahjong game tonight and will do my best to get those results to you before then. Do you have any questions about these instructions?
PATIENT: Mahjong. You remembered. Good. And “non-stick bandage”? As if I don’t know what that is! No, I don’t have any questions. It's simple enough. Wash, dry, bandage. Honestly, Doctor, you make it sound so…complicated. Just get those results to me quickly. I have a game to win, you know. And don’t bother calling with bad news. I can handle anything, as long as it doesn’t interfere with my mahjong. Right then. I believe that’s all. I’ll be going now. And do try to be prompt with those results, Doctor. Don't keep a lady waiting. .
DOCTOR: Right. A lady and her mahjong. .