DOCTOR: Well, Ms. Steines, it’s nice to meet you. I'm Dr. Havird. So, what brings you in today?
PATIENT: Oh, hello dear. It’s nice to meet you too. My blood pressure’s been…actin’ up, I guess. The last few checkups with my regular doctor, it was a little high. He wanted me to come see someone, just to be sure. I don’t really like fussin’ with doctors too much, if you know what I mean. Just want to get it sorted and get on with things.
DOCTOR: <stage>I tap a pen against the chart, a slight frown creasing my forehead. "Actin' up," is rather vague, isn't it?
PATIENT: Well, I ain't a doctor, child. I just know it felt…different when the nurse checked it last time. A little thumpier, maybe? And I get a headache sometimes, at the back of my neck. It comes and goes, mostly when I'm tired. I bake a lot, you see, and standin’ on my feet all day can be hard on an old woman.
DOCTOR: Right. And how long has this been going on – the higher blood pressure readings, and the headaches?
PATIENT: Oh, goodness. It's been… a few months, I reckon. Maybe six months or so? The blood pressure, I noticed it more then. The headaches come and go, like I said. Some days I don't have a one, other days it’s just a little ache. It's hard to keep track when you're busy with the bakery, always makin' pies and bread.
DOCTOR: Mm-hmm. And are you taking anything for it currently?
PATIENT: No, dear, nothin' at all. My regular doctor, he just told me to watch my salt and try to rest more. Easier said than done when you run a bakery, you know? Folks expect their apple pies! He's the one who suggested comin' to see you, said you might have some other ideas.
DOCTOR: Alright. Do you have any allergies to medications?
PATIENT: Not that I know of. I've never had a bad reaction to anything. I used to take somethin' for my arthritis when I was younger, but I don't remember what it was called. It was a long time ago. Mostly just get by with some liniment and try not to overdo it.
DOCTOR: Okay. And what about your family history?
PATIENT: Oh, Lord. Let me see… My mama, she had a weak heart when she got older. Spent some time in the hospital for it, I think. And my daddy, he had… well, he had a stroke, I believe. That was a long time ago, though. Lots of folks in my family just…didn't live to be old, if you know what I mean.
DOCTOR: Alright. Now, I'd like to take a few measurements, if you don't mind. Just a quick listen to your heart and lungs, check your pulse, and feel your abdomen. Standard stuff. Is that alright?
PATIENT: Oh, yes, dear, that’s fine. Go right ahead. I'm not afraid of a little listenin’. Just get it over with, if you please. I got a blueberry pie crust waitin' for me.
DOCTOR: Hmm. Your blood pressure is elevated, as expected. Your pulse is a little quick, and I'm hearing a few things in your lungs that I want to investigate further. And your abdomen is a little tender. Have you noticed any pain in your side, or any nausea or vomiting?
PATIENT: Oh my. That doesn’t sound good, does it? No, no vomit, thankfully. I’ve had a little bit of… a dull ache, I suppose, in my right side, mostly after I've been standin’ a long time. I figured it was just my old bones complainin’. I drink plenty of water, though. And I eat pretty healthy, mostly. Just a little sugar in my pies, that's all.
DOCTOR: Right. We'll need to do a few tests to get a better idea of what's going on. I’m going to order a complete blood count, a basic metabolic panel, an EKG, and a chest X-ray. We'll also want to check your liver function. These will give us a clearer picture of your overall health and help us determine the cause of your symptoms. Does that sound alright?
PATIENT: Oh, goodness. Lots of tests. Seems like a lot, but… if that’s what you think is best, dear, then go right ahead. I just want to get this sorted out and get back to my bakery. It's a little much for my assistant to handle on her own, you see. She’s a good girl, but she ain’t a baker.
DOCTOR: Alright. The nurse will come in shortly to draw your blood and get you set up for the EKG and X-ray. It shouldn't take too long. In the meantime, I'm going to write you a prescription for a low-dose aspirin to help with your heart health, until we get the results of these tests back. It's a preventative measure, just to be safe. Does that sound alright?
PATIENT: Aspirin? That's… alright, I suppose. My mama used to take somethin’ for her heart, I don’t recall what. As long as it don’t make me feel too strange, I guess it's fine. I just hope all these tests don’t take too long. I got a cake order comin’ up, a big one for a weddin’.
DOCTOR: Right. The results should be back within a few days. We'll schedule a follow-up appointment then to discuss them in detail. And try not to overexert yourself in the meantime. We'll get this sorted out. The nurse will be in shortly. Do you have any questions for me before she comes?
PATIENT: No, dear, I think that’s all. Just… try not to keep me waitin' too long for the results, alright? That weddin’ cake won’t bake itself. And thank you for seein’ me.
DOCTOR: Right. We'll do our best. The nurse will be with you shortly. Have a good day, Ms. Steines.
PATIENT: .