DOCTOR: Right then. Velda Squiers, is it?
PATIENT: Yes, that is correct. Velda Squiers. And it’s lovely to meet you, Doctor… Burlingham, is it? I hope I’m pronouncing that right.
DOCTOR: Burlingham will do, dear. Don’t bother with the formalities. Now, what brings you in today?
PATIENT: Well, thank you kindly. I’m going on a cruise next month – a rather nice one, actually, to the Mediterranean – and the cruise line needs some… information from a doctor. Just to say I’m fit enough to travel, you see. Nothing serious at all, just a standard thing, I believe.
DOCTOR: A cruise, eh?
PATIENT: Yes, sir. A small one, with a friend. I’ve always wanted to see Italy. Though, truthfully, all this paperwork is a bit of a bother. Do you think you’ll be able to help me with it? I don’t want to lose my deposit.
DOCTOR: Well, someone has to fill it out. Let’s get down to business then. I'll need a thorough history. Don't leave anything out, even if you think it's unimportant. Now, let's start with your general health. Any major illnesses you've had?
PATIENT: Oh, goodness. Where to begin? Let me think... Well, I had the measles as a wee girl, of course, and chickenpox. And a rather nasty bout of the flu a few years back, kept me in bed for a week. Nothing major, though, not like my husband… he had a heart condition, sadly. But I haven't had anything serious, not that I recall. Just the usual aches and pains that come with getting older, I suppose.
DOCTOR: "Aches and pains"... right. And how old are you, dear?
PATIENT: Forty-five, Doctor. Forty-five years young. Though I do feel older some days, truth be told. Especially when the weather’s damp. It plays havoc with my joints, you see.
DOCTOR: Forty-five. And what about surgeries?
PATIENT: No surgeries, Doctor. Never had any. I’ve always been lucky in that regard, I suppose. Just the usual… dentist visits, of course. And I had my tonsils out when I was a child, but that was a very, very long time ago.
DOCTOR: Alright. Now, family history. Anyone in your family with… significant medical problems?
PATIENT: Oh, goodness. My mother, bless her soul, had high blood pressure towards the end of her life. And my father, he had… well, he had a touch of arthritis, I think. And as I mentioned, my husband, he suffered with his heart. A very sad business, that was.
DOCTOR: And your siblings?
PATIENT: I have one brother, Alistair. He's quite well, actually. Lives up in Inverness. He’s always been a strong lad, very outdoorsy. He had his appendix removed when he was a teenager, but other than that, he’s as fit as a fiddle. A bit of a whisky drinker, mind you, but who isn’t in Scotland?
DOCTOR: Right. Social history then. Do you smoke?
PATIENT: Oh, goodness no! Never touched a cigarette in my life. My mother always said they were dreadful things, and I’ve always agreed with her. A waste of money, if you ask me.
DOCTOR: Alcohol?
PATIENT: Well, I enjoy a wee dram now and then, with my dinner. A small glass of whisky, usually. Nothing excessive, mind you. Just a little something to warm the cockles, as they say. It’s a Scottish tradition, after all!
DOCTOR: And what about medications?
PATIENT: Oh, not much at all, Doctor. Just a cream for my hands, they get very dry in the winter. And I take a vitamin D supplement, the doctor suggested it, said I wasn’t getting enough sunshine. Other than that, nothing. I try to stay as natural as possible.
DOCTOR: Alright. Let’s do a quick physical exam. Just to be thorough, you understand. Now, can you tell me if you have any allergies?
PATIENT: No allergies that I know of, Doctor. I've eaten all sorts of things over the years – shellfish, nuts, fruits… never had a reaction. Though, I do get a bit of a sniffle with pollen in the spring, but I wouldn’t call that an allergy, just a bit of hay fever, I suppose.
DOCTOR: Very well. Please, lie down on the table. We'll start with your blood pressure. And then a listen to your heart and lungs. Don’t fidget, dear. It makes things difficult.
PATIENT: Certainly, Doctor. Whatever you need.
DOCTOR: One-forty over eighty-five… not terrible, but not ideal. Heart rate is regular, but a slight murmur… likely innocent, but we’ll note it. Lungs are clear, good breath sounds. Abdomen is soft, no tenderness. Alright. Everything seems… adequate. Though, you are a bit overweight, dear. Have you considered your diet?
PATIENT: Oh. Well, I do enjoy my food, Doctor. It’s one of life’s pleasures, isn’t it? And I don’t get a great deal of exercise, to be honest. I used to walk more, but my knees aren’t what they used to be. I suppose I could try to be a bit more careful, but it’s not easy.
DOCTOR: Alright, dear. Well, based on this brief examination and your history… it seems you are, technically fit enough for a cruise. However, I strongly advise you to discuss your weight and lack of exercise with your primary care physician. And avoid any strenuous activity on the ship. I’ll draft a note stating you’re cleared for travel, but with those caveats. It's a standard form, you understand. I can’t be held responsible if you overexert yourself. Here you are. Sign here and here. And try to enjoy your cruise, within reasonable limits.
PATIENT: Very well, Doctor. Thank you kindly. I appreciate your time and your… frankness. I shall certainly consider what you’ve said about my weight. It’s just so tempting to have a nice piece of cake with my tea, you see. Is there anything else I need to do, or any other forms I need to fill out?
DOCTOR: No, dear, that’s all. Just remember what I said. And try not to eat too much cake. You're free to go now. And don't hesitate to consult a proper doctor if you experience any… difficulties. Next!
PATIENT: Right then. Thank you again, Doctor Burlingham.