DOCTOR: Good morning, Mr. Putney. Welcome to the clinic. I'm Dr. Gegan. It’s nice to meet you. So, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Morning, Doctor. Just… this life insurance thing. They need me to get checked out, you know? Gotta do what they say. It’s a bit of a hassle, honestly.
DOCTOR: Yes, insurance physicals can be that way. No problem at all, Mr. Putney. We'll get everything taken care of. So, to start, are you currently having any health problems or symptoms that you're aware of?
PATIENT: Not really. I mean, I get a little tired sometimes, but who doesn’t? I’m… getting older, right? Nothing major that I’ve noticed. My back aches a bit if I lift something heavy, but that’s about it.
DOCTOR: Okay, that’s helpful. And when you say “tired sometimes,” can you tell me a little more about that?
PATIENT: Well, it’s not like… sick tired. More like… at the end of the day, I just don’t have much left. Like all my energy is gone. I work at the lodge, you know? Lots of hours on my feet. It’s a physical job. It just… adds up, I guess.
DOCTOR: I understand. A demanding physical job can definitely take a toll. And how long has this fatigue been going on?
PATIENT: Oh, jeez… a while. Maybe… six months or so? It comes and goes. Some days are better than others. Honestly, I didn’t really pay much attention to it until the insurance company started asking questions. They made it sound like it was a big deal.
DOCTOR: Okay. It’s good you’re getting it checked out. Six months is long enough to warrant a look. Besides the fatigue and occasional back pain, have you noticed any other changes in your health recently?
PATIENT: Hmm… let me think. I’ve been… thirsty a lot lately. More than usual. And I think I’m peeing more often, too. But… I drink a lot of water when I’m working, so maybe that’s just that? It's hot out, you know. I don't know.
DOCTOR: Okay, increased thirst and frequent urination are worth noting, even if you think it might be related to your work and the heat. Just to be thorough, have you noticed any changes in your appetite or weight recently?
PATIENT: My appetite’s been… okay, I guess. Nothing really different there. And… I think I might have lost a little weight. But I haven’t been weighing myself regularly. It’s hard to say for sure. I’ve been kinda stressed lately, so… maybe that’s it? I dunno. This is a lot of questions. Can we hurry this up? I got things to do.
DOCTOR: I understand your frustration, Mr. Putney, and I will try to be as efficient as possible. These questions are just to help me get a complete picture of your health. Losing weight, even unintentionally, is something we need to investigate. Now, before we move on to your past medical history, are you experiencing any pain anywhere else besides your back?
PATIENT: No, just the back. Sometimes. Not all the time. Look, I’m really okay. I just need this signed so I can get this insurance thing over with. Is there a form I can fill out? Maybe that would be faster? I don’t wanna take up your whole day.
DOCTOR: I understand your desire to expedite this process. However, to ensure I can provide an accurate assessment for the insurance company – and, more importantly, for your own health – I do need to gather some more information. It won't take long. Let’s quickly go through a few questions about your past medical history. Have you ever been diagnosed with any serious medical conditions, like diabetes, high blood pressure, or heart problems?
PATIENT: No, not that I know of. Never been to the doctor much. I try to stay away from those places if I can. I'm a pretty healthy guy. My mom… she had some problems with her sugar when she got older, but I don’t. Not me. I eat pretty good, you know? Mostly fish and rice. And… well, I try. .
DOCTOR: Okay, that’s helpful. And have you ever had any surgeries or been hospitalized for anything?