DOCTOR: Right. So, Mr. Fratoni, what brings you in today?
PATIENT: Well, it's kinda weird, Doc. I just… have trouble getting up from chairs. Like, a lot of trouble. It's been happenin' for a few weeks now. Not every time, but enough that it’s worryin' me.
DOCTOR: Weeks, you say?
PATIENT: Yeah, 'bout three weeks, I think. Maybe a little longer. It started after… well, after my wife passed. I dunno if that has somethin' to do with it, but it was right around then. It’s not a pain, exactly. More like… my legs just feel stuck for a second. It’s hard to explain.
DOCTOR: “Stuck,” right. And this happens… when you attempt to rise from a seated position?
PATIENT: Yeah, exactly. Any chair, really. Doesn’t matter if it's a fancy one or just… a hard plastic thing. Sometimes it feels like I gotta really push with my arms to get goin'. Other times it’s just… resistence, like somethin’s holdin’ me back. It don’t hurt, though. Not usually. Sometimes a little strain in my back when I really gotta heave myself up.
DOCTOR: Hmm. Any other symptoms?
PATIENT: Other symptoms…? Let me think. Not really. I get tired easier, I guess, but I’ve been workin’ a lot. Oil fields, you know? It’s kinda expected. And… I dunno, maybe a little more clumsy than usual, but I always was a bit of a klutz. Nothing major, Doc. Just feelin’ kinda… off, I guess. And this chair thing is gettin' old, real fast.
DOCTOR: Past medical history?
PATIENT: Not much. Had my appendix out when I was a kid, that's about it. Broke my wrist fallin' off a horse once, but that healed up fine. No high blood pressure, no diabetes, nothin’ like that. I usually stay pretty healthy, eat okay, try to get enough sleep when I can. Oh, and I had the flu a couple of winters back, but everyone gets the flu, right?
DOCTOR: Family history?
PATIENT: My… that’s a tough one. My wife’s family, they had… heart trouble, I think. Her mom died young from somethin’ heart-related. My side of the family… my dad was a rancher, lived a long, hard life. Never much sick. My grandma had arthritis, real bad in her hands. But other than that… not much I can remember, honestly. We weren’t big on keepin’ track of that kinda thing. It’s not like I got a long list of illnesses to report, Doc.
DOCTOR: Allergies?
PATIENT: Nope, no allergies that I know of. I can eat anything, pretty much. Been stung by a few bees out in the fields, but that was just a normal sting, didn’t swell up or nothin’. No trouble with pollen, no reactions to medicine… I'm pretty lucky that way, I guess. One less thing to worry about, right?
DOCTOR: Alright. Let's do a quick physical exam. Could you stand up and walk for me?
PATIENT: Sure. Okay. Here, like this? I feel… okay, I guess. A little wobbly, maybe. Is somethin' wrong? It's kinda hard to explain how it feels, Doc. Like I gotta think about liftin’ my legs.
DOCTOR: Your gait appears slightly labored. I'm also noting some mild weakness in your lower extremities, approximately 4/5 bilaterally. You do exhibit some difficulty with balance. Let's try squatting. Can you try squatting down and then standing back up?
PATIENT: Squatting… okay. Whoa… that was… not graceful. Yeah, that's definitely harder than it used to be. My knees feel kinda loose, and my legs are burnin’ a little now. Does that mean somethin's wrong? I’m not used to feelin' this unsteady.
DOCTOR: Right. We'll need to run some tests to determine the cause of your weakness and instability. I'm going to order a complete blood count, a metabolic panel, and a vitamin D level. Also, I want an MRI of your lumbar spine to rule out any structural issues.
PATIENT: Okay… tests, huh? That sounds… serious. What kinda things are we lookin' for? Is it somethin' bad? And an MRI… is that expensive? I don't have insurance, Doc. I’m worried about how I'm gonna pay for all this.
DOCTOR: The tests are to rule out various possibilities. Vitamin deficiencies, inflammation, neurological issues… the lumbar spine MRI will check for compression of the nerves in your back. As for the cost, I'm not the billing department. You'll need to speak with them regarding payment options. I'll also give you a referral to a neurologist. They'll be best equipped to interpret the MRI results and determine the appropriate course of treatment. Here. Make an appointment as soon as possible.
PATIENT: Okay… right. A neurologist. More appointments, more tests… I understand. So, basically, you don't know what's wrong yet. And I gotta deal with the billing people on top of everything else. Is there anything I should do in the meantime? Like, should I take it easy? Or is there some kinda exercise I should avoid? I work pretty hard, Doc. I need to know if I'm gonna lose my job over this.
DOCTOR: Avoid any strenuous activity until you see the neurologist. I wouldn’t advise lifting anything heavy or engaging in any physical labor. And no, I cannot provide a work note at this time, as we haven’t established a definitive diagnosis. Do you have any other questions?
PATIENT: No… I guess not. Just… a lot to take in. Thanks, Doc. I’ll… I’ll try to get those tests scheduled. And I guess I’ll figure out the billing thing. I appreciate your time. .
DOCTOR: Very well. .