DOCTOR: Good morning, Jimmi. Welcome to the clinic. I’m Dr. Andraca. It’s nice to meet you. So, tell me, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Mornin’. Doc, right? Look, it’s… somethin’ with down there. Been… leakin’ a little. Not much, but enough to bother me. It’s kinda… icky. I don’t know what to call it. It’s been a few days, maybe a week? I dunno, time flies when you get old.
DOCTOR: Okay, I understand. You've noticed some leakage – you said “down there” – for about a week, and it's causing you some discomfort. It’s perfectly alright to not have specific medical terms for things, that’s what I’m here for. To help me understand better, could you describe the leakage a little more?
PATIENT: Describe it? It's… wet. And kinda… yellowish. Not like… pee, though. Thicker, ya know? And… sometimes it smells a little funny. Not real bad, but… noticeable. I ain’t been with nobody for a long time, so I know it ain’t from that. Just… happens. Is that bad? It feels kinda embarrassing even talkin' about it.
DOCTOR: I completely understand why you'd feel embarrassed, Jimmi, but please don't. This is a common issue, and we deal with it regularly. It's good you're bringing it to my attention. Okay, so it’s a yellowish discharge, thicker than urine, and sometimes has an odor. And you haven't had any sexual activity recently, which helps us narrow things down. To get a better picture, have you noticed any other symptoms along with the discharge?
PATIENT: Symptoms? Like… what kinda symptoms? I ain't been feelin' sick. Maybe a little tired, but I'm always a little tired. Oh! Now that you mention it, sometimes it kinda… burns when I go pee. Not always, just sometimes. And… and it kinda itches, too. Down there, where it’s leakin'. Is that what you mean by symptoms? It’s just… annoying, really. I just want it to stop.
DOCTOR: Yes, those are exactly the types of things I meant by symptoms, Jimmi. Burning with urination and itching are important to know. It sounds like you're experiencing some discomfort along with the discharge. Okay, let's talk a little more about your medical history. Have you had any previous urinary tract infections – UTIs – before?
PATIENT: UTI? I don’t know what that even is. I’ve had… tummy troubles, ya know? When I was a kid. And… and a bad flu once, real bad. But… never heard of a UTI. I been pretty healthy, all things considered. Old age comes with a few aches and pains, but… I ain’t been to a doctor in… oh, goodness, must be ten years! Maybe more. I mostly just deal with things myself. What is a UTI, anyway? Is that what I got?
DOCTOR: That's perfectly alright, Jimmi. A UTI stands for urinary tract infection – it’s an infection in your bladder or kidneys. Symptoms can include burning when you urinate, frequent urination, and sometimes a discharge, which sounds like what you’re experiencing. Since you haven’t been to a doctor in a while, and it sounds like you may be having symptoms of a UTI, I'd like to do a quick examination and run a urine test to confirm. Would that be alright with you?
PATIENT: A urine test? Well, I suppose. Don't see much choice, do I? It’s not like I wanna keep… leakin'. What’s involved? Do I gotta… sit on one of them cold metal things? And what if it is somethin’ bad? Don't tell me it’s somethin’ I caught, ya hear? I been a good woman. Mostly. Just get it over with, Doc. The sooner I know, the sooner I can maybe… stop it. But hurry, alright? I got things to do. Not important things, but… things.
DOCTOR: I understand your concerns, Jimmi. Don’t worry, we’ll get this sorted out as quickly and comfortably as possible. The urine test is very simple. You'll just need to provide a small sample in a cup, and we have a private bathroom right over there. It won't involve anything cold or uncomfortable. As for catching something, we won’t jump to any conclusions until we have the test results. UTIs are very common and often aren’t related to anything you've done. We'll figure out what's going on and get you the right treatment. I'll step out and let you have some privacy to collect the sample. Just let the nurse know when you're finished, and we'll get it sent to the lab. Is that okay?
PATIENT: Okay. A lab, huh? Fancy. Just point me in the direction. And… and try not to take too long, alright? I ain't got all day. And tell that nurse to be gentle. I ain’t as young as I used to be, ya know? Just… go ahead and show me the way, Doc. This is kinda humiliating, if you wanna know the truth.
DOCTOR: Of course, Jimmi. I understand. It’s right this way. The nurse, Maria, is very kind and understanding. She’ll be gentle, I promise. Just take your time. There’s no rush. And don't hesitate to call out if you need anything at all. I'll be just outside if you need me.
PATIENT: .