DOCTOR: Good morning, Mr. Schneer. I'm Dr. Korrell. So, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Oh, good mornin’ to ya, Doctor. Well now… it’s me ears, I think. They just ain’t what they used to be, that’s for sure. Folks are always sayin’ I gotta turn the TV up awful loud. And sometimes… sometimes I just don’t hear things at all. It’s a bit… frustrating, ya know? Not sure when it started, really. Just… happened gradually, I suppose.
DOCTOR: Gradually, alright. That's common, unfortunately. And is this happening in both ears, or just one?
PATIENT: Oh, good question. Hmm… let me think now. I think it’s both, but maybe one’s a bit worse than the other? It’s hard to tell, honestly. They both feel… muffled, like there’s cotton in ‘em sometimes. I wouldn't swear on it though, me memory ain’t what it used to be.
DOCTOR: Muffled in both...yes. And have you noticed any ringing, buzzing, or other noises in your ears at all?
PATIENT: Ringing… Now that you mention it… maybe? Sometimes, late at night, I think I hear a kinda high-pitched… whine. It’s not constant, though. Comes and goes. It's quiet, mostly. Could just be the house settling, I always figured. I dunno, Doctor. Is that a bad thing?
DOCTOR: It could be nothing, or it could be related. Alright. And has this hearing loss or the ringing affected your balance at all?
PATIENT: Balance… Now that’s a good question. I… I haven't fallen or anything, but I do feel a little unsteady sometimes. Maybe a bit more clumsy than I used to be. I chalked it up to gettin' old, ya know? But now that you ask… maybe it is me ears. I wouldn't be surprised, honestly. Everything feels off lately.
DOCTOR: Alright. Well, we'll need to take a look. I'm going to do a quick exam, just to get a better idea of what's going on. I'll listen to your ears with this otoscope, and we'll do a simple hearing test in the room. Does that sound alright?
PATIENT: Oh, that sounds fine, Doctor. Whatever you need to do. I always worry about stickin’ things in me ears, but… if you say it’s alright, I trust ya. Just be gentle, would ya? Me ears are sensitive.
DOCTOR: Of course, of course. Very gentle. Please have a seat. Hmm… a little cerumen buildup, but nothing dramatic. The tympanic membranes themselves look… normal. A bit dull, but that could be age-related. Alright, can you hear me rubbing my fingers together here?
PATIENT: Hmm… barely. It's… faint. Very faint. I can hear a little somethin', but it's not very clear. Like someone’s whisperin' from across the room. And that’s with me good ear, I think. The other one… nothin’ much at all. It's quiet. Really quiet.
DOCTOR: Alright, that confirms what I suspected. You have some degree of hearing loss in both ears, more pronounced in one. Given your age and symptoms – the gradual onset, the ringing, the balance issues – it's likely age-related hearing loss, also known as presbycusis. Now, before we jump to conclusions, I’d like to send you for a formal audiometry test. That will give us a more precise idea of the extent of the loss and what frequencies are affected. It's a painless test, done by a specialist. Does that sound agreeable?
PATIENT: A specialist, huh? Well… I always preferred just stickin' to one doctor, if I could. But… if you think it's best, Doctor, I suppose I can go see someone. Is it far? And will it cost me a lot? Medicare should cover it, shouldn't it? I get awful confused with all that insurance stuff.
DOCTOR: Yes, it’s a referral, and yes, Medicare should cover it, but you’ll likely have a co-pay. The location is about ten miles from here, at the audiology clinic on Elm Street. I'll have the receptionist print out a referral form and the clinic's information for you. In the meantime, I'm going to recommend avoiding loud noises as much as possible. And......try to have family members speak clearly and face you when they’re talking. It's a simple thing, but it can make a difference. Do you have any questions for me at this point?
PATIENT: Oh, Elm Street… I think me niece lives near there. That's somethin’, at least. Avoid loud noises… well, I mostly stay home, ya know? Don’t go to many parties anymore. And me family… they mostly yell, if I'm bein' honest. So, speakin' clearly might be a challenge. Umm… will the test tell me why me ears are bad? Is there somethin' I can do to fix 'em? I don't want to get a hearin' aid if I can avoid it. I've heard they whistle and make everything sound funny. Is there any other option?
DOCTOR: The test will give us a detailed understanding of where the hearing loss is, but pinpointing the exact cause is often difficult with age-related loss. As for treatment… …there are unfortunately no “cures.” Hearin’ aids are the most effective option for improving your quality of life, and modern ones are vastly improved. They rarely whistle, and can be adjusted to sound natural. But, we’ll see what the audiologist says first. I don’t want to push you into anything you’re not comfortable with. Do you understand?
PATIENT: No cures, huh? Just… gettin’ older? That’s… disappointing. And hearin’ aids… well, I’ve just never liked the idea. Seems like admitin’ defeat, ya know? I always prided myself on bein’ independent. Alright, alright. I suppose I should go see the specialist. Just… don’t expect me to be thrilled about it. Could you write down the name of the clinic, just in case me niece can take me? I forget names so easily these days. .
DOCTOR: Certainly. Here's the clinic's name and address. It’s “Audiology Solutions,” and the address is 14 Maple Street. I’ll also have the receptionist schedule a follow-up appointment with me after you’ve had the hearing test. Any other questions before you go?