DOCTOR: Alright, Mr. Brege. So, what brings you in today?
PATIENT: Well, doc, it's this fever. Keeps comin' back. It's been… honestly, I lost track of exactly how long. A couple weeks, easy. Maybe more. It goes away for a day, then BAM, it's back again. Just feelin' lousy, you know? Tired, achy... the whole thing.
DOCTOR: A couple of weeks, huh?
PATIENT: Yeah, like I said, a couple. Could be three, could be four. Time kinda…blurs, you know? It’s not a high fever, not like I need the emergency room or anything. More just…annoying. And it makes it hard to get things done. My wife keeps tellin' me to come in, and I finally figured I should. I don’t like feelin’ like this.
DOCTOR: Right. Annoying fevers can be… disruptive. Any other symptoms along with it?
PATIENT: Hmm… let me think. Not really. No cough, no sniffles. No…stomach trouble, thankfully. Just… tired. And kinda weak. Sometimes a little achy, like I said. I haven't noticed any rashes or anything weird like that. My appetite's been a little off, but that could just be from not feelin' well, right? It's hard to enjoy a good plate of arroz con gandules when you feel like garbage.
DOCTOR: Arroz con gandules… Okay. And any recent travel?
PATIENT: Travel? No, nothin’ fancy. Haven’t left the state in…oh, goodness, probably five years. Just local stuff, you know? Grocery store, church, visitin’ the grandkids. Nothin' that would get me sick, I don't think. I haven’t been around anyone sick either, not that I know of. My wife’s been pretty careful about keepin’ germs away. She’s a real clean freak, God bless her.
DOCTOR: Alright. And are you currently taking any medications?
PATIENT: Just a little somethin’ for my blood pressure. Lisinopril, I think it’s called. Been on it for years, nothin’ new. And, uh… sometimes I take a little ibuprofen if my joints are achin’. But that’s it. No vitamins, no supplements, nothin’ like that. Just the basics, doc.
DOCTOR: Any allergies to medications?
PATIENT: Nope. Never had a reaction to anything. Not that I know of, anyway. My wife always asks when I get a new prescription, and I always tell her "nope". She keeps good track of that stuff, makes sure everything's okay. I’m lucky to have her, really. I don’t remember ever breakin' out in a rash or havin' trouble breathin' after takin' a pill. I’d remember that, wouldn’t I?
DOCTOR: Right. Okay. Let's just do a quick physical exam, just to get a better picture of things. Can you step on the scale for me?
PATIENT: Sure, no problem. Hope I haven’t put on too much weight. My wife’s been tryin’ to get me to cut back on the pasteles. They're delicious, though. Can’t resist ‘em.
DOCTOR: Alright. Have a seat here. Let me listen to your heart and lungs, okay?
PATIENT: Okay, sure. This always makes me feel a little silly, you know? Like I’m back in school gettin' checked over. But I guess it’s necessary. Just let me know if it’s gonna be cold or anything. My skin gets sensitive these days.
DOCTOR: Deep breath… and exhale. Anything feel tender here?
PATIENT: Nope, not really. Just feels… normal, I guess. A little gassy, maybe, but that’s just my age. My wife says I eat too much beans. But they’re good beans, doc! Seriously, nothin' painful or anything. Just… you know, an old man’s belly. Is everything alright so far?
DOCTOR: Reflexes seem… normal. A little slow, but that’s not uncommon at your age. Any swelling in your legs or feet?
PATIENT: Hmm… let me see. I don't think so. My ankles maybe feel a little… puffy sometimes at the end of the day, but I figured that was just from bein' on my feet too long. I do a lot of walkin' to church on Sundays. And, well, gravity, you know? I’m not gettin’ any younger. But nothin’ major, doc. Definitely no elephantiasis or anything.
DOCTOR: Alright. Based on what you've told me and the quick exam, it sounds like you likely have a viral infection. These can come and go, and sometimes it just takes time for your body to fight it off. We can run some blood tests to rule out anything more serious, but honestly, it’s probably just a bug.
PATIENT: A bug, huh? Well, that’s… somethin’. Blood tests, you say? I guess that’s alright, if you think it’s necessary. Honestly, doc, I just want to feel normal again. This tiredness is wearin' me down. Will the blood tests tell you what kind of bug it is? And… will it take long to get the results? My wife's got a bingo night next week, and I promised I'd drive her. I don't want to miss that.
DOCTOR: It's unlikely we'll pinpoint exactly what kind of virus it is, honestly. The tests are more to rule out bacterial infections or other issues. Results usually take a few days. If it’s just a virus, rest, fluids, and over-the-counter pain relievers are usually all you need. I'll order the blood work now. The nurse will come in and get it done. Does that sound good?
PATIENT: Yeah, that sounds… alright. A few days, huh? Okay. I can handle a few days. Rest and fluids, you say? My wife will be happy to hear that. She always tells me to drink more water. Alright, sounds good. Just let me know if there's anything else I need to do. And thanks, doc. I appreciate you takin' a look at me. I think… I think that’s everything, right? I’d like to get goin’ if I can, if you’re all finished.
DOCTOR: Yeah, that's all for now. The nurse will be in shortly. Get it done at the lab across the street. Have a good day.