DOCTOR: Good morning, Mr. Reyno. I’m Dr. Chora. So, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Morning, Doc. Uh… it’s this cough. Been coughin’ up… stuff. Red stuff. Not good. I smoke, see. Long time. Don't remember exactly how long, but a long time. It just…started happening a few weeks back, I think. Maybe a month? Hard to say.
DOCTOR: Okay, a cough with red-tinged mucus. And you mentioned you have a history of smoking. Let’s try to get a bit more detail. When you say “a few weeks back,” was it gradual, or did it start suddenly?
PATIENT: Suddenly, I think. Or… quick. Not like it built up slow. One day, just… there. Like a little pop, and then… red. Sorry, it’s just… hard to remember things exactly. It ain’t been a good few weeks, that’s for sure.
DOCTOR: No worries, Mr. Reyno, it’s understandable. We’ll take it slow. So, quick onset, a few weeks ago. Is the cough constant, or does it come and go?
PATIENT: Comes and goes, mostly. Worse in the morning. And when I… when I move around too much. Tryin’ not to move too much lately. Just feels… easier. Not a real big smoker these days, but still… enough, I guess.
DOCTOR: Okay. Worse in the morning, and with exertion. And you've cut back, but still smoke. Have you had any fever, chills, or night sweats along with the cough?
PATIENT: Fever… maybe. Hard to tell. I just feel tired a lot. Always tired. Can’t really say about chills… I don't know. Don’t remember feeling real cold or anything. Sweaty at night, sometimes. But I always sweat at night. It’s hot out, see?
DOCTOR: Alright, fatigue, possibly some night sweats. Let’s talk about other symptoms. Any chest pain with the cough?
PATIENT: Chest pain… sometimes. Not a bad pain, but… a tightness. Like somethin’ squeezin’. It doesn’t last long. And it don’t happen every time I cough. Mostly when I cough real hard.
DOCTOR: Okay, chest tightness with hard coughing. Have you noticed any shortness of breath, or wheezing when you breathe?
PATIENT: Shortness of breath… yeah. A little. But I’m always outta shape, see? Been that way for a while. Old age. And I don't think I wheeze… not that I know of. My breath just gets… heavy, sometimes. Especially when I walk up the hill to the store.
DOCTOR: Alright, some shortness of breath, especially with exertion. Now, let’s go through some general health questions. Any significant medical problems in the past?
PATIENT: Uh… I had my appendix out when I was a kid. A long time ago. And… I think I broke my arm once. Don't really remember much about it. Mostly, I just…get tired easy. And achy. That’s about it.
DOCTOR: Okay, appendix removal as a child, a broken arm, and generally feeling tired and achy. Any family history of lung problems, like COPD or lung cancer?
PATIENT: Lung problems… my dad smoked. A lot. He… he got sick. Real sick. I think it was somethin’ with his lungs, but… I was just a kid. I don't really remember the details. And my mom… she never smoked. She died of somethin’ else.
DOCTOR: Okay. Father with smoking history and a lung illness. And your mother passed away from another cause. Do you have any allergies to medications, foods, or anything else?
PATIENT: Not that I know of. Never had a reaction to nothin’. Doc, can we hurry this up a bit? I got things to do.
DOCTOR: Alright, no known allergies. And I understand you’d like to keep this brief. Last question for now – are you currently taking any medications?
PATIENT: Just somethin’ for my back. Hurts sometimes, see? Old age. It's a little white pill... can't remember the name. It helps a little. That's it.
DOCTOR: Okay. Something for your back pain, a small white pill. Alright, Mr. Reyno, I'd like to listen to your lungs and do a quick exam, if that's alright. It’ll give me a better idea of what’s going on.
PATIENT: Fine. Whatever you need to do, Doc. Let’s just get it over with.
DOCTOR: Okay, take a nice, deep breath for me… and exhale slowly. Good. I'm hearing some wheezing in your lower lobes, and some decreased breath sounds on the right side. There's a slight dullness to percussion on the right side as well. Your heart sounds are normal, and your pulse is steady. Now, I'm going to check your oxygen saturation with this clip on your finger. 92%. That’s a little on the low side.
PATIENT: Low side, huh? That ain’t good, is it? What does that mean? I told ya I was tired.
DOCTOR: No, 92% is a bit lower than we like to see. It means your blood isn’t getting as much oxygen as it should. Based on your symptoms – the cough with red mucus, the wheezing I heard, the decreased breath sounds, the dullness to percussion, and your oxygen saturation – I’m concerned about a possible lung infection, like pneumonia, or possibly even something related to your smoking history. It's too early to say definitively, though. I’d like to order a chest X-ray to get a better look at your lungs. We'll also run some blood tests to check for infection. Would that be alright?
PATIENT: X-ray… tests… sounds expensive. Look, Doc, I ain’t got a lot of money. I just need somethin’ to stop the coughin’. Can’t you just give me somethin’ for it?
DOCTOR: I understand your concerns about the cost, Mr. Reyno. We can certainly discuss payment options with the billing department, and Medicare should cover a good portion of these tests given your symptoms. But I need to be thorough to make sure we get the right treatment. Giving you something to just suppress the cough without knowing the underlying cause could be dangerous. It could mask a serious infection and make things worse. I don’t want to just put a band-aid on this. I need to find out why you’re coughing up blood. The X-ray and blood tests will help me do that. I’m also going to prescribe you a bronchodilator inhaler to help open up your airways and make breathing easier in the meantime, but that's not a replacement for finding out what’s causing this. What do you say?
PATIENT: Fine. Do the tests. But hurry it up, alright? And make sure Medicare covers it. I don't wanna be gettin’ no big bills. And… what's this inhaler do exactly?
DOCTOR: Alright, I understand. We'll get the orders in right away for the X-ray and blood tests, and we'll work with the billing department to ensure Medicare coverage. The inhaler I'm prescribing is called albuterol. It's a bronchodilator. It works by relaxing the muscles in your airways, which makes it easier for you to breathe. You’ll use it as needed when you feel short of breath or wheezy. The nurse will show you how to use it properly before you leave. Here’s the prescription for the albuterol. And we'll get you scheduled for the X-ray as soon as possible. The lab will take some blood right here in the clinic before you leave. After we get the results, we'll call you to discuss the next steps. Do you have any questions about any of that?
PATIENT: No, I think… I think I got it. Just… get it over with, alright? I got things to do. And tell the nurse to make it quick. I ain't good with needles.
DOCTOR: Alright, Mr. Reyno. I understand. The nurse will be in shortly to draw your blood. She'll do her best to make it as quick and comfortable as possible. We'll get these tests done as efficiently as we can. I also want to strongly recommend that you consider quitting smoking. I know it's difficult, but it's the best thing you can do for your health. We have resources available to help you if you’re interested. In the meantime, just focus on getting some rest and using the inhaler as needed. Is there anyone you’d like me to notify with the results?
PATIENT: No. Nobody. I’m… I’m on my own. Just… get the tests done.
DOCTOR: Alright, Mr. Reyno. We'll respect your privacy. The nurse will be with you shortly. Please don’t hesitate to let her or me know if you have any questions or concerns. We’ll get you taken care of.
PATIENT: .