DOCTOR: Good morning, Mr. Schlatterer. I’m Dr. Chora. So, tell me, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Oh, it's... well, it's the young people, mostly. The students. Honestly, the lack of discipline is appalling. I’ve been doing this a long time, you understand. A very long time. It's… tiring. Is that sufficient? I haven’t got all day, you know.
DOCTOR: I understand you're feeling stressed, sir. And I appreciate you coming in. To be clear, are you experiencing any physical symptoms – anything at all – related to this stress, or are you here to discuss the impact of these students on your well-being from a more... emotional perspective?
PATIENT: Physical symptoms? Goodness, no. I’m not ill. Though I do find myself… less enthusiastic about grading papers. And perhaps a bit more prone to… correcting people. It’s a professional hazard, really. It’s not me that’s the problem, Doctor. It’s them. Honestly, the standards have simply… plummeted. Are we finished?
DOCTOR: While I understand your frustrations, sir, changes in energy levels, appetite, or even just a general feeling of being "less yourself" can sometimes be related to stress and warrant a check-up. It’s good practice to rule things out. Have you noticed any changes in your sleep?
PATIENT: Sleep? Well, I sleep, of course. As much as one can with the world being as noisy as it is. Though… now that you mention it, I suppose I do wake up a bit more than I used to. But that’s hardly a medical issue, is it? Probably just the neighbors’ dog again. Honestly, Doctor, are we getting anywhere with this? I have a faculty meeting this afternoon.
DOCTOR: Okay. And when you wake up during the night, is it difficult to fall back asleep?
PATIENT: Sometimes. It’s not… a consistent issue. It’s more… thoughts. Lingering thoughts about the curriculum, the students’… inadequacies. Honestly, it’s exhausting having to constantly correct their mistakes. It’s a burden, really. Are you writing all this down? It’s probably irrelevant, but… fine. Write it down. Just… let’s move things along, shall we?
DOCTOR: I am documenting everything, sir, as a matter of course. These details are relevant. Now, have you noticed any changes in your appetite recently?
PATIENT: Appetite? Hmm. I eat. What does that have to do with anything? I suppose I don’t enjoy my meals as much as I once did. Everything tastes… bland. But that could be the cook at the cafeteria. She’s new, you know. Utterly hopeless, I suspect. Are we going to discuss the cafeteria staff now, Doctor? This is getting ridiculous.
DOCTOR: Okay. A diminished appetite and decreased enjoyment of food can sometimes be associated with stress or other underlying issues. Now, have you noticed any unintentional weight loss recently, sir?
PATIENT: Weight loss? Really, Doctor! Are you suggesting I'm wasting away? I may be slightly thinner than I was, perhaps. But that's simply because I'm... more focused on intellectual pursuits than on indulging in excessive amounts of food. It's called discipline! Honestly, the impertinence... Are we finished yet? I distinctly remember telling you I have a meeting. .
DOCTOR: Alright, sir. Let me quickly assess your vitals, just to get a baseline. Then, we can discuss some potential options. It's a quick check, won’t take long. Blood pressure, pulse… just a few basic measurements. If you could just extend your arm, please.