DOCTOR: Right. Mr. Kammann, is it?
PATIENT: Yep, that’s me. Londell Kammann. Glad to finally get in here, been meanin’ to do this a while now. Hope you had a good weekend.
DOCTOR: Yes, well. Let’s try to stay focused, shall we?
PATIENT: Right, right. Sorry, Doc. Old habit, I reckon. Just…nice to be talkin’ to someone, you know? Lost my wife a few years back, and…well. What’d you wanna know first? About my health, I guess?
DOCTOR: Yes, let's start with why you are here today. What specifically brought you in now?
PATIENT: Well, I saw that ad about “Men’s Health Optimization.” Sounded…better than just regular checkups, if you catch my drift. Not feelin’ bad, exactly, just…not feelin’ good as I used to. Less pep, if you know what I mean. And I figure at my age – 69, as you probably see there – it’s worth lookin’ into things. Make sure everything’s still workin’ the way it should, keepin’ up with things as long as I can. I still do a fair bit of etching, you know. Gotta have the hands steady for that.
DOCTOR: “Optimization,” yes. A marketing term, really. But we can certainly review your overall health. “Less pep…” Can you be more specific?
PATIENT: Hmm. Well, it’s a few things, I s’pose. Takes a little longer to get goin’ in the mornin’, you know? And I get tired easier, especially if I’ve been doin’ a lot of detailed work with the etching tools. And…well, to be honest, things ain’t workin’ down there like they used to. Not somethin’ I’m overly thrilled about, but it’s part of gettin’ older, I guess. Just thought maybe there was somethin’ that could be done. I ain’t lookin’ for a miracle, just…better than it is now. Does that make sense?
DOCTOR: Yes, I understand. Let’s start with a brief medical history. Any significant illnesses or hospitalizations?
PATIENT: Let’s see… Not much, thankfully. Had the flu a couple times when I was a kid, and broke my arm fallin’ outta a tree when I was maybe ten. But nothin’ serious, nothin’ that needed hospitalizin’. My wife, bless her heart, she had some trouble with her heart a few years back, but I mostly took care of her at home. No big surgeries for me, though. And I keep up with my shots, you know, flu and pneumonia and all that. I try to be responsible. Does that cover it?
DOCTOR: And family history?
PATIENT: That’s a little tougher. My dad died when I was pretty young, heart trouble, I think. Mom lived a long life, but she had some arthritis, mostly in her hands. On my wife’s side, her mother had diabetes, and her brother…he had some kinda cancer, lung cancer, I think. But that’s about all I know, to be honest. We weren’t a family that talked a whole lot about health, if you get my drift. More the silent sufferin’ type, I reckon. Is that helpful? I wish I had more details for ya.
DOCTOR: Marginally. Do you have any allergies to medications?
PATIENT: Nope. Never had a reaction to anything. Taken a fair amount of antibiotics over the years – got a bad sinus infection every now and then – but never no allergies. Penicillin, erythromycin, whatever they gave me, I always took ‘em just fine. I’m pretty lucky that way, I guess. You ever had allergies yourself, Doc? They sound awful.
DOCTOR: That is not relevant. Are you currently taking any medications, prescriptions or over-the-counter?
PATIENT: Just a little somethin’ for my blood pressure. Been on lisinopril for maybe…five years now, somethin’ like that. Doc told me to take it every mornin’, and I do. Small pill, easy enough. Other than that, nothin’. I don’t really believe in takin’ a lot of pills unless I absolutely have to. And I try to eat right, mostly. Though I do have a weakness for fried okra, I gotta admit. Don't tell anyone.
DOCTOR: Right. Well. Let's do a quick physical exam. Blood pressure is… as expected, given the medication. 130/80. Pulse is 72, regular. Let’s listen to your heart and lungs. Sounds clear, no wheezing or murmurs. I’ll check your reflexes and some basic neurological function.
PATIENT: Sounds good to me, Doc. Been a while since someone listened to my lungs, so that’s nice. Feels…reassurin’, somehow. Reflexes, huh? Hope I ain’t lost too much spring in my step yet. Old age creepin’ up on ya, you know?
DOCTOR: Reflexes are…slightly diminished, but within normal range for your age. Strength is adequate. Now, I'm going to need a urine sample. And we'll do some blood work to get a better picture of your overall health. Cholesterol, blood sugar, hormone levels…the usual.
PATIENT: Hormone levels, huh? Well, alright then. Don't blame a fella for wonderin' if somethin's a little outta whack these days. I’ll be right back. And, uh, Doc? Don’t worry, I’ll try to get a good sample. I ain’t shy.
DOCTOR: .
PATIENT: .