DOCTOR: Good morning, Mr. Pipolo. Welcome to the clinic. I'm Dr. Beinborn. It's nice to meet you. So, what brings you in today?
PATIENT: Morning. Just… my eyes. They feel real dry. Been that way a bit now. Don’t like it.
DOCTOR: Okay, dry eyes. I understand. And how long has this been going on, roughly?
PATIENT: Oh, geez. Hard to say. Maybe… a month or so? Could be longer. Time gets away from me, you know? It’s just… not getting better. It’s annoying. Especially when the wind blows.
DOCTOR: I see. A month or so, and it's worse with the wind. Do you feel like it’s just dryness, or is there any pain, burning, or blurry vision associated with it?
PATIENT: Not really pain. More just… scratchy. Like something’s in ‘em. And things do get kinda blurry sometimes, but I figured that’s just my age. I don't know. Old eyes, I guess.
DOCTOR: Okay, scratchy and blurry at times. It's good you're bringing this up, even if you think it might be just age. We should check it out to be sure. Do you wear glasses or contacts?
PATIENT: Glasses, yeah. For reading, mostly. Not all the time. And no, not contacts. Never liked those. Too much fuss.
DOCTOR: Alright, no contacts, just reading glasses. And have you noticed any discharge from your eyes?
PATIENT: Discharge? Like… stuff comin' out of ‘em? Not really. No. Maybe a little… crusty in the mornings, but that’s it. Everybody gets that, right?
DOCTOR: That’s fair, a little crust in the morning is common. Okay. And do you have any other medical problems, like anything with your joints, or skin conditions?
PATIENT: Hmm. My knees ain't what they used to be, if that’s what you mean. Old cement work, you know? Lots of bending. And… I get dry skin in the winter, real bad. But that’s just winter. Not much else, really. I’m pretty tough. Always have been.
DOCTOR: Okay, knees and dry skin. I appreciate you telling me. Now, are you currently taking any medications, including over-the-counter things like vitamins or pain relievers?
PATIENT: Nope. Don’t take nothin’ regular. Maybe an aspirin if my head hurts real bad, but that’s it. I try to stay away from pills if I can. Never liked ‘em.
DOCTOR: Okay, good to know. And do you have any allergies to medications, foods, or anything else that you’re aware of?
PATIENT: Allergies… not that I know of. Never had a bad reaction to anything. I eat pretty much anything. Used to work outside all the time, and never had trouble with pollen or anything like that. Maybe a little itchy sometimes when the mosquitoes get to me, but that’s not an allergy, is it?
DOCTOR: No, that's not an allergy, that's just a mosquito bite! Alright. So, no known allergies or regular medications. Let's do a quick exam of your eyes, if that's alright with you. It will help me get a better understanding of what’s going on.
PATIENT: Alright, alright. Get it over with, then. Don't poke ‘em too hard. Old eyes, remember?
DOCTOR: Absolutely, I'll be very gentle. We'll start with your vision, then I'll take a look at the surface of your eyes. Just relax, and look straight ahead. Okay, can you read the top line for me?
PATIENT: Uh… is that an 'E'? Yeah, I see an 'E'. It’s kinda blurry though. I think… F? Yeah, definitely an F. It’s hard to see ‘em clear.
DOCTOR: Okay, that’s helpful. Now, let's try the next line. Okay, your vision is a little reduced. Now, I'm going to take a closer look at the surface of your eyes with a special light. It won’t hurt, I promise. I see some mild dryness and a few tiny scratches on the surface of your eyes, which is likely contributing to the scratchy feeling you’re experiencing. This is called punctate keratitis, and it's often caused by dry eyes.
PATIENT: Punct… what now? Scratches? On my eyes? Is it serious? Do I need… pills? Or surgery? I don’t want surgery.
DOCTOR: No, no surgery, absolutely not. And it’s not serious, thankfully. Punctate keratitis just means there are some small areas of damage to the surface of your cornea, which is the clear front part of your eye. It's often caused by dryness, like we discussed. It’s very common, especially as we get older, and it's usually easily treatable. We can start with some lubricating eye drops, to keep your eyes moist. I also recommend a humidifier, especially in the winter, to add moisture to the air. We can also talk about some other things you can do to help, like avoiding dry, windy conditions and wearing sunglasses when you're outside. We can try these things first and see how you do. If they don’t help, we can consider other options. Does that sound alright?
PATIENT: Drops… okay, drops. That I can handle. Better than surgery, that’s for sure. And a… humidifier? What’s that? Do I gotta buy one? I guess I can get some drops. Where do I get ‘em? And how often do I put ‘em in?
DOCTOR: That’s right, just drops. A humidifier adds moisture to the air, which can help keep your eyes from drying out. They can be a little expensive, but you can find them at most pharmacies or department stores. If you don’t want to buy one right away, that’s okay too. We can try just the drops first and see if they help. I’m going to write you a prescription for artificial tears, which is a type of lubricating eye drop. You can get them at any pharmacy. I recommend putting them in four times a day, or as often as you need to relieve the dryness. If your eyes feel particularly dry, you can use them more often. Here’s the prescription. It also has some instructions on there. We’ll see how you’re doing in a month, and if they’re not helping, we can talk about other options. Do you have any other questions for me?
PATIENT: Four times a day… okay, I think I can remember that. Four times. No, I guess not. Just… don’t let ‘em get too bad, you know? Old eyes, like I said. Don’t want to go blind. Thanks, Doctor. I appreciate you not makin’ me get surgery.
DOCTOR: You’re very welcome, Mr. Pipolo. And don’t worry, we’ll take good care of your eyes. We’ll see you in a month to check on your progress. And if things get worse before then, don’t hesitate to call the office. Have a good day, and try to avoid the wind! .
PATIENT: Alright. You too, Doctor.