DOCTOR: Good morning, Jase. I’m Dr. Paulino. So, tell me, what brings you in today?
PATIENT: Um, hi Doctor. It’s…well, it’s my stomach, I guess. I’ve been having a lot of trouble with diarrhea, and it’s just…not stopping. It’s been going on for a while now, and it’s really wearing me down. Honestly, I can’t really remember when it started, exactly. Just…a long time.
DOCTOR: A “long time,” you say. Hmm. And when you say “a lot,” can you quantify that for me?
PATIENT: Quantify? Oh…like, how often? Gosh, that’s hard. Most days, at least…three or four times? Sometimes more. It’s not…solid, ever. And it’s… uncomfortable, obviously. It’s just…a lot of trips to the bathroom. I don’t really…keep track, if that makes sense. I just know it's frequent.
DOCTOR: Frequent is…not particularly helpful for a diagnosis, unfortunately. And is there anything that seems to trigger it?
PATIENT: Trigger? Like, what makes it worse? I… honestly, I’m not sure. I eat pretty normally, I think. Maybe sometimes it's after I eat? But other times it just…happens. My husband tries to remember what I ate, but we can’t really find a pattern. Everything seems to set it off, or nothing at all. It’s really confusing. I used to think dairy, but I cut that out and it didn't help.
DOCTOR: Cutting out dairy…a self-diagnosis, then. Alright. And are you experiencing any other symptoms along with the diarrhea?
PATIENT: Oh, yeah. Sometimes…my stomach hurts, like cramping. And I’ve been really tired lately. Just…exhausted. I thought it was just from being busy, but maybe it's connected? And… I’ve lost some weight, I think. My clothes feel a little looser, but I haven't actually weighed myself. It’s hard to keep track of things, you know? Sorry, I’m probably not being very helpful.
DOCTOR: It's...information. Have you noticed any blood or mucus in your stool?
PATIENT: Oh…that’s a…personal question. I…think so. Sometimes. Not a lot, but…yeah. It’s…scary. It’s not always there, but it’s happened a few times. My husband noticed it first, actually. He told me to come see someone. I’ve just been putting it off, to be honest. It’s embarrassing.
DOCTOR: Alright. And have you traveled anywhere recently?
PATIENT: Traveled? No, not really. Just…a weekend trip to my sister’s place last month, but that wasn't very far. Still in the state. Nothing international or anything. We haven’t been able to afford a proper vacation in years, to be honest. So, no. Just the usual driving around for groceries and stuff.
DOCTOR: Very well. Let’s move on to your medical history. Do you have any pre-existing conditions?
PATIENT: Um… I think so? My doctor… a long time ago, told me something about… IBD? Or was it Celiac? Something like that. It was years ago, and I don’t really remember all the details. He put me on some medication, but I stopped taking it because it made me feel sick. I haven’t been back to see him in ages. Sorry, I’m really bad with remembering things. It’s just… a blur. Is that important?
DOCTOR: “Something like that” is not a sufficient medical history. We will need to access your records. Do you have any idea which doctor you saw?
PATIENT: Um…Dr. Khan? I think that was his name. He was… near the old hospital, before it closed down? I haven't been there in… oh gosh, at least five years. Maybe longer? I just went to the urgent care for everything after that. I really don't remember much about what he told me, honestly. It was a long time ago, and I was stressed about a lot of things back then. I wish I could be more helpful. .
DOCTOR: We’ll see what we can find. Let me access your electronic health record…This may take a moment. Do you currently take any medications, prescription or over-the-counter?