DOCTOR: Good morning, Mr. Skarbek. I'm Dr. Finco. It’s nice to meet you. So, tell me, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Good morning, Doctor. It’s a pleasure to meet you as well. Well, it’s about getting some shots. My granddaughter… she’s trying to get her husband to come live here, you see. He’s from over in… well, not from here, but needs some papers and I understand he needs some vaccinations for that to happen. I just want to make sure he gets what he needs, and that I understand everything. It’s a little confusing, all these requirements.
DOCTOR: That’s very thoughtful of you, Mr. Skarbek. It can be confusing, all the paperwork and requirements. We’ll get everything sorted out. So, to be clear, you're wanting to ensure your granddaughter’s husband has the necessary vaccinations to be able to live here?
PATIENT: Yes, ma'am, that’s right. He’s a good man, and she’s very happy with him. I just want to help smooth things over. I’ve got his paperwork here somewhere… …ah, here it is. It says he’s from Colombia. Do you need anything special from me, or should I just bring him in to see you?
DOCTOR: Colombia, okay. That’s helpful. It’s best if he comes in for a consultation. We need to review his vaccination history – if he has records, that would be wonderful, but if not, we can discuss which vaccinations are recommended based on his age and where he’s been. I’ll also need to ask him some questions about his medical background. Do you know if he has any allergies or current medical conditions?
PATIENT: Well, now, that’s a good question. She hasn’t mentioned any allergies, but he doesn’t speak much English, so it’s hard to get a full history sometimes. She does most of the talking for him. He seems healthy enough, works hard… mostly physical labor, I think. She says he sees a doctor back home when he needs to, but I don’t know anything about records. Would it be alright if she came with him? For translation, you understand.
DOCTOR: Absolutely, that would be very helpful. Having her there to translate will be perfect. We want to make sure we get all the information correct. So, just to confirm, he’s currently healthy as far as you know, and he sees a doctor back in Colombia when needed?
PATIENT: Yes, ma’am, that’s right. As far as I know. She’s very careful about those things. She says he had all his usual childhood shots, but… well, that was a long time ago, and I don’t have any proof of it. It’s just what she tells me. He’s a strong young man, though. Doesn’t complain much. Is there a list of the shots he might need? Just so I can have an idea?
DOCTOR: Certainly. It depends on his age and past vaccinations, but generally, adults need boosters for tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis – that’s Tdap. We also recommend influenza and COVID-19 vaccinations. Depending on his history and risk factors, he might also need vaccinations for measles, mumps, rubella, varicella , hepatitis A and B, and possibly others. It’s a little complicated, and that’s why a consultation is so important – we need to assess his individual needs. Would you like me to schedule an appointment for him?
PATIENT: Yes, please. That would be wonderful. An appointment would be best. He’s working most days, so maybe sometime next week? Whatever works for you, Doctor. I appreciate you taking the time to explain all this. It’s a relief to know someone is handling it. He’s a good man, and I want to make sure he can come here safely and legally.
DOCTOR: Of course. Let me see… how about Tuesday afternoon at 2:00 PM?
PATIENT: Tuesday at two sounds perfect. That should work for both of them, I think. Is there anything I need to do before the appointment? Any forms he needs to fill out ahead of time? Or any records I should try to dig up, even though I don't have much?
DOCTOR: Excellent. Just bring him and his granddaughter, and if you have any old medical records at all, that would be helpful, but don’t worry if you don’t. We can work with what we have. There's a brief health history questionnaire we'll have him fill out when he arrives, and, because of the language barrier, it would be helpful if she’s able to assist him with that. Also, please bring a photo ID for him, if possible. Does that sound manageable?
PATIENT: Yes, ma'am, that sounds very manageable. A photo ID, the questionnaire… and his granddaughter to help with the translating. I can do all that. Thank you so much, Doctor Finco. You’ve put my mind at ease. I really appreciate your patience and kindness. I'm just glad someone is taking care of this. It’s a weight off my shoulders. I believe that is all.
DOCTOR: You're very welcome, Mr. Skarbek. I'm glad I could help. We’ll do our best to ensure a smooth process for your granddaughter and her husband. We look forward to seeing you both on Tuesday at 2:00 PM. If anything changes, or if you have any questions before then, please don’t hesitate to call the office. Have a lovely day!
PATIENT: Thank you, Doctor. You have a lovely day as well. And thank you again for everything. Goodbye now.