DOCTOR: Good morning, Ms. Cassimatis. I'm Dr. Fourney. So, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Oh, good morning, Doctor. Please, call me Carla. Well, it's my skin. It's been so itchy lately. It's driving me crazy, honestly. Not all over, just… here and there. Mostly my arms and back.
DOCTOR: Alright, Carla. Itchy skin, huh?
PATIENT: Yes, terribly itchy. It's not painful, just… really annoying. And it seems to be worse at night, which doesn't help with sleeping, you know? I've tried some lotions, but they don't seem to do much good.
DOCTOR: Hm. And how long has this been going on?
PATIENT: Oh, goodness. Let me think… it started, I’d say, maybe a month or so ago? It wasn’t bad at first, just a little bit. But it’s gotten worse over the last week or so, definitely. I thought maybe it was the heat, but it’s still itchy even when it cools down a bit at night.
DOCTOR: Okay. A month, getting worse over the last week, worse at night… Have you noticed any rash along with the itching?
PATIENT: Rash? Hmm… not really a rash, no. It’s not bumpy or anything. It just looks… normal, I guess. Maybe a little red in places where I’ve been scratching, but that’s probably from me, you know? It’s hard to explain. It just feels itchy, even if it doesn’t look like much is going on.
DOCTOR: Right, just the sensation of itchiness. Have you changed any soaps, detergents, or lotions recently?
PATIENT: Oh, that’s a good question. Let me think… No, not really. I’ve been using the same things for years, I think. Old habits, you know? I did try a new hand soap a couple of weeks ago, a lavender one, but I didn’t like the smell, so I went back to my old one pretty quickly. It didn’t seem to make a difference either way.
DOCTOR: Alright. And do you have any other symptoms?
PATIENT: No, not really. No fever, no tiredness, nothing like that. Just the itchiness. It’s just… really bothersome. I’m a little worried, to be honest. I don’t usually bother the doctor for little things, but this is starting to get to me.
DOCTOR: Okay. No other symptoms. Let's take a look at your skin. Could you please turn around so I can examine your back?
PATIENT: Yes, of course. Here you go, Doctor. Be gentle, please. It’s quite sensitive.
DOCTOR: Alright. I’m not seeing any obvious rash, but there is some mild redness and a few small scratches. The skin feels a little dry. It’s hard to tell without a rash, but it doesn't look like anything too concerning at first glance. Do you have any known allergies?
PATIENT: Allergies… hmm. Not that I know of, really. I used to be allergic to cats when I was a little girl, but I haven’t been around cats in years. And I’ve never had a reaction to any food that I’ve noticed. I eat pretty much everything. I don’t think I have any medication allergies either, but I don’t take a lot of pills. Just vitamins, really. Is that important?
DOCTOR: It's good to know. Vitamins are helpful to know. And what vitamins are you currently taking?
PATIENT: Oh, just a basic multivitamin, you know? One of those senior ones, with extra D and B12. And sometimes I take a little calcium, for my bones. My daughter keeps telling me I need to take more calcium. Nothing fancy, just the stuff you get at the drugstore. I don’t really pay much attention to what’s in them, to be honest. Just take them because my daughter says I should!
DOCTOR: Right, a multivitamin with extra D and B12, and some calcium. Okay. And do you have any significant medical conditions?
PATIENT: Significant medical conditions… Well, I had my gallbladder out years ago, maybe twenty years now? And I have a little arthritis in my hands, but it’s not too bad. It just gets a little stiff sometimes. Other than that, I’m pretty healthy, for my age, I think. I try to stay active, I walk a little bit every day. And I eat a good diet, mostly. I really try to take care of myself.
DOCTOR: Alright. Gallbladder removal years ago, some arthritis, otherwise generally healthy. Now, do you currently take any medications, besides the vitamins?
PATIENT: No, not really. Like I said, just the vitamins. I used to take something for my blood pressure, a few years back, but the doctor took me off of it. Said my numbers were good enough. So, nothing prescription-wise, just the vitamins. I really try to avoid taking pills if I can, you know? I don’t like the way they make me feel.
DOCTOR: Okay. No current prescription medications. Let's talk about your family history. Are there any skin conditions that run in your family?
PATIENT: Hmm, that's a good question. Let me think… My mother had eczema when she was a little girl, I think. But nobody else that I can recall. My father had high blood pressure, like I did, but not any skin problems. And my siblings are all pretty healthy, as far as I know. Nothing that jumps to mind, anyway. We weren't really big on talking about medical things when I was growing up. It wasn't really the done thing, you know?
DOCTOR: Alright. History of eczema in your mother, otherwise no significant family history of skin conditions. And finally, do you smoke, drink alcohol, or use any recreational drugs?
PATIENT: Oh, no, absolutely not. Never smoked a day in my life. And I haven’t had a drink in… goodness, probably forty years? And I certainly don’t do any drugs. Never have, never will. I was raised better than that, you know? I always thought those things were bad for you. I drink a lot of water, though. That’s good for you, right?
DOCTOR: Yes, plenty of water is excellent. Okay, Carla, thank you for all of that information. It helps me get a better picture of what's going on. Based on what you've told me, and the examination, it sounds like you may be experiencing a case of dry skin, possibly exacerbated by something environmental. It’s not uncommon, especially as we get older. However, without a rash, it’s hard to say for sure. I'd like to start with a simple treatment plan. We can try a fragrance-free, hypoallergenic moisturizer twice a day. Something like CeraVe or Cetaphil. I’m also going to recommend an over-the-counter hydrocortisone 1% cream for the itchy areas, apply that sparingly, just a thin layer, one to two times a day. We will see if that helps. Are you allergic to any creams?
PATIENT: No, not that I know of. I’ve used creams before, nothing fancy, just for dry hands in the winter. I’ve never had a reaction. CeraVe and Cetaphil… I think I’ve heard of those. They sound alright. Twice a day, you said? And just a little bit of the cream on the itchy spots? That doesn’t sound too bad. I can definitely try that. Will that really help, Doctor? I’ve been so uncomfortable.
DOCTOR: It should help, Carla. If the itching doesn't improve after a week or two, or if it gets worse, we may need to consider other possibilities, like an allergic reaction or something else going on. But let’s start with this simple plan and see how it goes. Do you have any questions for me before we wrap up?
PATIENT: No, I don’t think so. That sounds good, Doctor. A week or two, and see if the creams help. And if it doesn’t, then we’ll figure something else out. I appreciate you listening to me. It’s just been so annoying, you know? I just want to stop itching! And thank you for not making me feel silly about it.
DOCTOR: You're very welcome, Carla. It's never silly to seek medical attention for something that's bothering you. I’m glad I could help. I’ll write you a little note with instructions on the creams, and we’ll schedule a follow-up appointment in two weeks to see how you’re doing. In the meantime, if anything changes or you develop a rash, please don’t hesitate to call the office. Alright?
PATIENT: That sounds wonderful, Doctor. A note would be great. And I will definitely call if anything changes. Thank you again for everything. You’ve put my mind at ease.
DOCTOR: You're very welcome. I'm glad I could help. The nurse will be in shortly to give you the note and schedule your follow-up. Have a good day, Carla. And try not to scratch!
PATIENT: Alright, Doctor. I'll try my best! You have a good day too.