DOCTOR: Alright, Betty, is it?
PATIENT: Oh, yes, that's right. Betty Schneer. Though, everyone just calls me Betty. It's nice to meet ya, dear. Don't rightly remember the last time I was at a doctor's office, to be honest. It's been... a while.
DOCTOR: Yes, well, that's not uncommon at your age. So, what brings you in today, Betty?
PATIENT: Oh, well, it's my ears, mostly. They just... don't work like they used to, ya know? Things are gettin' muffled. Folks are talkin', and I gotta ask 'em to repeat themselves all the time. It's gettin' a bit embarrassing, really. I don't know what it is, exactly. Just... hard to hear.
DOCTOR: Muffled hearing, you say?
PATIENT: Yep, muffled. Like talkin' through a pillow sometimes. Not all the time, mind ya. Sometimes it's clear as a bell, other times... just a mush of sounds. It's been gettin' worse lately, I reckon. Especially when there's a lot of noise around. Makes it awful hard to follow a conversation.
DOCTOR: Alright. And how long has this been going on, approximately?
PATIENT: Oh, goodness. That's a tricky one. It's been... gradual, ya see? Not like it happened overnight. Maybe... a couple of years, at least? Hard to say exactly. I just kept thinkin' folks were mumblin' more than usual! It's only recently gotten bad enough to bother comin' to the doctor, I suppose.
DOCTOR: Okay. And do you experience any ringing in your ears, Betty?
PATIENT: Ringing? Hmm... sometimes, yeah. A little bit. Not constant, mind ya. It's more like a... faint hum, maybe? Mostly when it's quiet. It doesn't bother me too much, usually. Just... there. It comes and goes, ya know? Is that… bad?
DOCTOR: It can be. We'll need to take a look. Have you ever had any exposure to loud noises, Betty?
PATIENT: Loud noises? Well, I worked in a shoe factory for… oh, goodness, almost 40 years! Lots of machines, clatterin’ and hummin’ all day long. It was a noisy place, alright. Never thought much of it at the time, just part of the job, ya know? They didn’t give us earplugs or anything like that back then. Is that what you mean?
DOCTOR: Yes, that's precisely what I mean. Alright. Let's do a quick exam. I'm going to take a look in your ears with this little light. Just sit still, please.
PATIENT: Oh, alright. Sounds good, dear. Just let me know if it tickles! I don't usually like folks pokin' around in my ears, but I suppose it's gotta be done. Go ahead.
DOCTOR: Hmm. Some cerumen – wax – buildup. Not excessive, but could be contributing to the muffled hearing. And the tympanic membrane – your eardrum – looks a little cloudy. Right ear similar findings. Some wax and slight cloudiness of the tympanic membrane. Okay. It looks like there’s some wax obstructing the ear canal, and possibly some fluid behind the eardrum. Could be related to the noise exposure. We’ll need to rule out other causes, though.
PATIENT: Oh, dear. Fluid, you say? Is that bad? I knew I should have taken better care of my ears! All those years in that factory… What does this mean, doctor? Will I go deaf?
DOCTOR: Now, now, don’t jump to conclusions. Fluid behind the eardrum is common, especially with age and after noise exposure. It doesn't automatically mean you’ll go deaf. It can cause temporary hearing loss and discomfort, though. We need to get a proper audiogram – a hearing test – to see exactly what's going on and the extent of the loss, if any. I'm going to order that for you now. And I'll refer you to an audiologist – that's a specialist who deals with hearing – for the testing. They’ll be able to give you a more detailed assessment and recommend a plan. We can also discuss some wax removal options, depending on the results of the test.
PATIENT: Oh, a specialist, huh? Alright. That sounds sensible. A test… I suppose I can handle a test. Wax removal… well, that wouldn't be the worst thing, I reckon. It's just… all this talk of fluid and specialists is a bit scary. Is it gonna be expensive? My Medicare… will it cover everything?
DOCTOR: Medicare should cover the majority of the costs for the audiogram and a reasonable examination by the audiologist. We'll submit the necessary paperwork for you. There may be a small co-pay, depending on your plan, and potentially some out-of-pocket costs if you decide to pursue hearing aids in the future, but we'll discuss all of that with you before any further action is taken. For now, let's focus on getting the test scheduled. I'll have my assistant schedule an appointment for you at the audiology clinic across town. They should call you within the next couple of days to confirm a time. Do you have any questions for me before I let you go?
PATIENT: Oh, that's good to hear about the Medicare, dear. That's a weight off my mind. No, I don't think I have any questions right now. Just... get the test done, and see what they say, I suppose. I appreciate you explainin' everything so clearly. Thank ya kindly, doctor. I hope I can still hear my grandkids… that’s all I really want.
DOCTOR: Alright. My assistant will be in shortly to give you the appointment information and answer any further questions you may have. Let's just hope it's nothing serious. Have a good day, Betty. .
PATIENT: Thank you, dear. You too. .