DOCTOR: Good morning, Mr. Baide. I am Dr. Mutnick. Now, please tell me, in your own words, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Ugh, morning. Look, doc, I don’t have all day. It’s my hand. It shakes. Has been for a while, I guess. Honestly, it’s just… annoying. Gets in the way of things. Not that there are a lot of things anymore, but still. What do you need to know?
DOCTOR: “Annoying” is a rather… imprecise medical descriptor, Mr. Baide. Let's try to be a bit more specific. When did you first notice this shaking?
PATIENT: Specific? Oh, for crying out loud. When… geez. A long time ago. Months, probably. Maybe longer. Honestly, I don’t keep track of these things. It just… started. I was trying to hold a glass of wine, and it wasn't pretty. That's probably when I noticed it, yeah. Wine's important. Don't judge me.
DOCTOR: Very well. And has this shaking been gradually worsening since that incident with the wine, or has it been relatively stable?
PATIENT: Stable? Look, I'm eighty years old! Everything’s getting worse! My knees, my back, my memory… it's all going downhill, you know? The hand… it’s just part of the package. But if I had to say… yeah, it's probably a little worse than it was at first. Not dramatically, though. Don’t expect me to give you percentages or anything, I don’t do numbers.
DOCTOR: I understand you find quantifying it difficult, Mr. Baide. Is this shaking present constantly, or does it come and go?
PATIENT: Comes and goes. Mostly when I'm trying to do something. Holding things, writing… trying to look dignified, you know? When I'm just sitting, it's not so bad. Although, even then, sometimes it’ll just… twitch. Drives me crazy. It's embarrassing. People stare, you know? They think I've got the palsy or something. It's just… a shake, alright?
DOCTOR: And does anything seem to trigger these episodes of shaking, besides attempting fine motor tasks?
PATIENT: Trigger? Hmm. Well, if I'm tired, it's worse. And… stress, maybe? Though what doesn’t stress me these days? The world's going to pot, you know? Politicians, the youngsters, the price of a decent steak… all stressful. Honestly, I’d be surprised if anything calmed it down. Don’t bother asking. It's probably just old age. Can we get this over with? I have a nap planned.
DOCTOR: Very well. I'd like to perform a quick neurological exam, if you’ll permit me. Just a few simple tests to assess the tremor and rule out other potential causes. It shouldn't take long. Please extend your arms in front of you, palms up.
PATIENT: Ugh, tests. Fine. But don’t expect miracles. I'm not exactly a specimen of health, you know. And be quick about it. I'm not good at standing around. There. Happy? Now get on with it.
DOCTOR: I observe a resting tremor in both upper extremities, more pronounced on the right side. There’s also some degree of rigidity present. Posture appears slightly stooped. Now, please close your eyes and tap your finger to your nose repeatedly with both hands.
PATIENT: There. Done. See? Not pretty. Never was good at these things, even when I was younger. Probably all those years directing… too much coffee, too little sleep. What's it all mean, anyway? Am I dying? I swear, if this is just going to lead to a list of things I can't do anymore…
DOCTOR: Mr. Baide, let's not jump to conclusions. The findings are suggestive of an essential tremor, though further evaluation is warranted to rule out other possibilities. It's a common condition, particularly in older adults. It doesn’t necessarily indicate any underlying serious illness. I’d like to order a basic blood panel to check your thyroid function and rule out any metabolic imbalances. We'll also review your current medications. Have you noticed any changes in your speech, swallowing, or balance?
PATIENT: Speech? Swallowing? Balance? What are you, a veterinarian now? I talk, I eat, I… mostly sit. Look, I’m old. Things aren't as sharp as they used to be, alright? Maybe my voice isn’t booming like it once was, and maybe I don't do as much walking. But no, I haven't noticed anything particularly wrong. And frankly, I'm not going to start scrutinizing every little twitch and swallow now because you asked. Just get the blood test done and let me go home. Honestly. What a waste of time. And the waiting room was dreadful. Dreadful. .
DOCTOR: Very well. I will order the blood panel as requested. The results should be available in a few days. A nurse will contact you to schedule a follow-up appointment to discuss them. In the meantime, I suggest avoiding excessive caffeine and ensuring adequate rest. Perhaps consider limiting activities that exacerbate the tremor. Is there anything else I can assist you with today, Mr. Baide?