DOCTOR: Good morning. Dr. Jules. Please, have a seat. Now, Mr. Schneer, tell me… what brings you in today?
PATIENT: Oh, good morning to you too, dear. Well, it's my ears, you see. They just… aren't what they used to be. Everything’s a bit muffled, like talking underwater, almost. It’s been gettin’ worse, I reckon. Not sure when it started, exactly. Time… slips away, don't it?
DOCTOR: Muffled hearing… yes. And you say this has been a gradual decline?
PATIENT: Gradual… yes, I suppose that's the word. It didn't just happen overnight. More like… slowly fading. Like an old radio losin' signal. I used to be able to hear a pin drop, my mother always said. Now… well, now I gotta ask folks to repeat themselves a lot. Especially the young ones, they mumble! Not that I blame 'em, mind you.
DOCTOR: Right. And are you experiencing any pain, ringing in the ears, or dizziness alongside the muffled hearing?
PATIENT: Pain? No, not really. Not like a sharp pain, anyway. Sometimes a little… fullness, maybe? Like somethin' blocked 'em up. And dizziness… oh, now and then. But I put that down to gettin' old, mostly. I get a bit lightheaded when I stand up too fast, but that’s been happenin’ for years. Ringing… hmm. Now that you mention it, sometimes. A faint sort of… tinkling, maybe? It comes and goes, though. Don’t bother me much.
DOCTOR: Very well. And have you noticed if this is worse in certain environments?
PATIENT: Environments…? Oh, let me think. Yes, actually. It's worse when there's a lot of noise. Like when the telly's up loud, or if I'm at the shops. All that chatter… it just blends together. Makes it even harder to hear what people are sayin'. Quiet places are better, of course. But even then, it's not like it used to be. I used to love a good sing-along, but now… well, it's a bit of a strain.
DOCTOR: I see. And are you currently taking any medications, Mr. Schneer?
PATIENT: Medications… oh dear. Let me think now. Just the usual, I suppose. For my blood pressure, the little white pill. And sometimes a painkiller for my knees, when they're botherin' me. But that's it, I think. Old Mrs. Higgins next door, she’s got a whole cabinet full of 'em, but I try to keep it simple. Can't remember the names, mind you. Doc always writes 'em down, but I misplace the paper, usually.
DOCTOR: Right. And do you have any allergies to any medications or anything else?
PATIENT: Allergies… hmm. Not that I know of, no. Never had a bad reaction to anything, not that I recall. I used to eat all sorts as a child, wild berries and everything! Though, I do get a bit of a sniffle with dust, but that's just hay fever, I reckon. Not a proper allergy, is it? My sister Elsie, she was allergic to cats. Dreadful rash. But I'm fine with 'em. Always loved a good cuddle with a kitty.
DOCTOR: Very well. I’m going to perform a brief examination of your ears now, Mr. Schneer. Please remain still.
PATIENT: Oh, right. An examination, is it? Yes, go ahead. I'll try to stay still. Though, I do wiggle a bit sometimes, old habit. Just let me know if it tickles, alright?
DOCTOR: Hmm. There appears to be some cerumen – earwax – present in both ears. It’s not excessive, but it could be contributing to the muffled hearing. The tympanic membranes – that’s the eardrums – appear intact, but somewhat… dull. No visible signs of infection. I’m also going to listen to your heart and lungs, just to get a general overview.
PATIENT: Oh, is that so? Earwax, you say? Never thought of that. I used to clean 'em with a bit of cotton, but maybe I didn’t do it right. Dull… that doesn’t sound good, does it? Heart and lungs, alright. Go ahead, dear. I always feel a bit better when someone listens, even if they don’t find anything wrong. Makes me feel… looked after, you know?
DOCTOR: Heart sounds are regular, but slightly… diminished. Lungs are clear to auscultation, though there is some mild wheezing on expiration. Alright, Mr. Schneer. Based on my examination, it appears you likely have a combination of age-related hearing loss, impacted cerumen, and potentially some mild age-related changes in your lungs. I recommend we begin with cerumen removal. I can perform this in the office. It may not fully restore your hearing, given your age, but it should provide some improvement. We'll also monitor your lung function.
PATIENT: Oh, age-related, you say? Well, that’s not surprising, is it? Everything gets a bit worn out eventually. Cerumen removal, alright. Sounds… sensible. If gettin' rid of the wax will help, then go ahead, dear. I trust your judgement. I'm not fussed about havin’ perfect hearin’ anymore, mind you. Just nice to be able to hear the telly without strainin'. And monitorin' my lungs… well, that sounds wise. Whatever you think is best, Doc. You’re the expert. Just let me know what needs doin'. I just want to feel… a bit more like myself again.
DOCTOR: Very well. I’m going to schedule you for cerumen removal next week. And I’ll order a chest x-ray to assess your lung function. Here’s a referral for the x-ray. I’m also prescribing a nasal spray to help keep your nasal passages clear, which can improve your Eustachian tube function and, in turn, assist with hearing. Follow-up appointment is scheduled for two weeks from today to discuss the x-ray results and assess your hearing after the cerumen removal. Do you have any questions?
PATIENT: Oh, goodness me, that's a lot of paperwork! A chest x-ray… nasal spray… right. Two weeks… I’ll have to write that down, I reckon. Eustachian… what was that now? Oh, never mind, I’ll just trust you to explain it again when the time comes. No, I don't think I have any questions at the moment, dear. Just… a bit overwhelmed, that's all. Thank you for lookin' after me. .
DOCTOR: Very well. Please let the receptionist know if you have any difficulty scheduling the x-ray. I’ll see you in two weeks, Mr. Schneer. .