DOCTOR: Good morning, Ms. Wartick. I'm Dr. Sham. So, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Good morning, Doctor. Well, it’s… rather embarrassing, truthfully. But I suppose that’s why one comes to a doctor, isn’t it? It’s… a problem with a… gentleman friend. A rather new gentleman friend, if you must know. And he's… discharging. It's not very pleasant.
DOCTOR: Discharging… I see. You mean experiencing an…emission, Ms. Wartick?
PATIENT: Emission? Is that what you call it? Honestly, Doctor, that sounds…clinical. It’s… coming out of him. And it's not normal. It's… yellowish. And smells quite awful, actually. It's not a good sign, is it? I mean, I haven’t… well, I haven't been with anyone in quite some time, and I wouldn’t want to catch anything, naturally.
DOCTOR: Okay. Yellowish discharge…and a foul odor. And this is a new development with this…gentleman friend. It’s good you're being cautious about potential infection. To clarify, Ms. Wartick, is this discharge from you, or from him?
PATIENT: Oh! Doctor Sham, really! What a question! From him, of course! Do you think I would be here complaining about my discharge? Goodness gracious. I should think that was rather obvious. He's the one with the…problem. Honestly, the questions some doctors ask these days…it's quite impertinent.
DOCTOR: My apologies, Ms. Wartick. I am…sometimes less clear in my questioning than I should be. So, he is experiencing a yellowish discharge with a foul odor. Has he had any pain, burning, or itching associated with this?
PATIENT: Well, he complained of a bit of discomfort, yes. Mostly just… a general feeling of being unwell. And he did scratch a bit, but he always scratches. He’s a bit of a fidget, honestly. Not the most…refined man, but he has other qualities. As for burning... I haven't specifically asked him about burning, Doctor. Would he even tell me? It’s not something one discusses over tea, you know.
DOCTOR: Okay, discomfort and scratching. And no known burning. Has he had any fever, chills, or lower abdominal pain?
PATIENT: Lower abdominal pain… hmm. Now that you mention it, he was rather quiet last night. He usually has a booming laugh, you see, but he didn't say much. And I think he felt a bit warm to the touch, but I didn’t take his temperature, of course. I’m not a nurse, Doctor. I simply noticed he wasn’t his usual boisterous self. As for chills…no, I don’t recall any shivering. He was wearing a sweater, but it was a bit drafty in the room.
DOCTOR: Okay. So, possible fever, quiet demeanor, yellowish discharge, discomfort, and scratching. Ms. Wartick, this sounds like it could be an infection, potentially a sexually transmitted infection. I need to ask…have either of you been tested recently?
PATIENT: Tested?! Doctor Sham, are you suggesting…?! Goodness gracious! I have never! And I highly doubt he has. Where would one even go for such a thing? This is all terribly upsetting. I simply wanted to know what was causing the discharge, not to be accused of…of impropriety! This is outrageous. I thought doctors were supposed to be discreet, not…interrogators!
DOCTOR: Ms. Wartick, I apologize if my questions were upsetting. I wasn't accusing anyone of anything. I am simply trying to gather information to determine the best course of action. Given the symptoms, it is prudent to consider the possibility of an infection. I highly recommend he see a physician for evaluation. I can provide you with a list of clinics in the area. Would that be helpful?
PATIENT: Well… I suppose a list wouldn’t hurt. Though, frankly, I doubt he’ll go. He’s a rather stubborn man. Still…it’s better than nothing, I suppose. And I wouldn't want to catch anything. But I must say, Doctor, you’ve certainly taken the enjoyment out of… everything. A list, yes. A list would be…appreciated. And perhaps you could write it down very clearly. He doesn’t read well.
DOCTOR: Certainly, Ms. Wartick. Here are a few local clinics. I've written the addresses and phone numbers clearly. I strongly advise him to get evaluated as soon as possible. While we wait, I recommend avoiding any sexual contact. I'm also going to write a general note recommending he be evaluated for common STIs. Is there anything else I can do for you today?
PATIENT: Hmph. Well, I suppose that’s all, Doctor. I appreciate the list, even if this whole experience has been… unpleasant. Thank you. Though, I can’t promise he’ll follow your advice. Men! They never listen. Still… I shall try. Good day, Doctor.
DOCTOR: You're welcome, Ms. Wartick. Please, encourage him to seek care. And don't hesitate to contact the clinic if you have any questions. Have a good day as well.