DOCTOR: Good morning, Mr. Kammann. I’m Dr. Murtic. So, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Morning, Doctor. Please, call me Londell. Well, I reckon I'm getting on in years, and figured it’s time to see about keepin’ things runnin’ as smooth as possible for as long as possible. A “men’s health check-up,” I believe my wife used to call it. She always kept me on track with these things… it's been a bit since she passed, and I want to make sure I'm doin’ alright.
DOCTOR: Right. A general check-up. Very sensible, Londell. Though, frankly, preventative care is often…overblown. Still. We’ll do a basic assessment. Have you been experiencing any specific problems?
PATIENT: Not really, no. Not that I’ve noticed, anyway. Maybe a little slower to get goin’ in the mornings, and…well, things ain’t what they used to be in that department, if you know what I mean. But mostly just the general aches and pains of gettin’ older, I suppose. Nothing I can’t work through. I still do a fair bit of etching, keeps my hands busy, you know?
DOCTOR: Etching. Interesting. And these aches and pains…whereabouts specifically?
PATIENT: Mostly in my lower back, really. Been that way for a while, comes and goes. And my hands get stiff sometimes, especially after a long day at the workbench. Not crippling, mind you. Just…uncomfortable. I try to stretch 'em out, use some liniment, that sort of thing. It usually helps some. I’ve always been pretty good at pushin’ through things, I suppose. My wife used to say I was stubborn as a mule.
DOCTOR: Right. "Pushing through." A common…misconception. Let's get some specifics, Londell. On a scale of one to ten, with ten being the worst pain imaginable, what would you rate this lower back pain at its worst?
PATIENT: Hmm… at its worst? I reckon maybe a six or seven. It doesn't come on suddenly, usually builds up after I’ve been bent over the workbench for a few hours. Never had anything that took my breath away, thankfully. It’s more of a dull ache than a sharp pain, if that makes any sense. And it usually eases up with a good night’s sleep.
DOCTOR: Alright. And how about your hands?
PATIENT: The hands… they're probably a four, on a bad day. Mostly just stiffness, makes it hard to get a good grip sometimes with the tools. It's not constant, comes and goes. I can still do the work, just…takes a bit longer, a bit more effort. Used to be able to work for hours without a second thought, but now I gotta take more breaks.
DOCTOR: Do you have any trouble with your bladder or bowels?
PATIENT: Well now, that's a bit personal, isn’t it? No, not really. Everything’s workin’ as it should, for an old man, anyway. Maybe gotta get up a bit more at night than I used to, but that’s just part of gettin’ older, I reckon. No trouble holdin’ things, no pain or burnin’, nothin’ like that. Why do you ask? Is that somethin’ I should be worryin’ about?
DOCTOR: It's standard procedure, Londell. We have to rule things out. You haven’t noticed any changes in your urine – color, frequency, anything unusual?
PATIENT: Well, now that you mention it… I have noticed it seems like I’m goin’ a bit more often than usual. Not a whole lot, mind you, but enough to make me think about it. And the color… I suppose it’s a bit darker than it used to be. I drink plenty of water, though, always have. I just figured it was somethin’ to do with the heat. Is that somethin’ serious, Doctor? I’m startin’ to get a little worried now.
DOCTOR: Probably just dehydration. Or a mild infection, easily treated. We'll need to run a urinalysis, just to be certain. Standard procedure. Do you have any family history of prostate problems, diabetes, or heart disease?
PATIENT: Now, that’s a good question. My father… he had some trouble with his heart later in life, ended up havin’ a bypass. My mother, she was always healthy as a horse, lived to be ninety-two. As for diabetes… I don’t think so, but my family weren’t big on keepin’ records, if you know what I mean. Cherokee folks, we relied more on rememberin’ than writin’ things down. I do have a cousin, on my mother’s side, who had some trouble with his prostate. Needed surgery, I believe. Does that matter?
DOCTOR: It’s relevant. And what about your social history, Londell?
PATIENT: Social history? Well, I ain't much of a social butterfly, if that’s what you mean. Lost my wife, Sarah, five years back. We were married for fifty years. She was the life of the party, always had a friend or two over for coffee. Since she’s been gone, I mostly keep to myself. Spend my time in my workshop, workin’ on my etchings. Don’t drink, don’t smoke. Never have. Used to go fishin' with my son, but he moved out west a while back. Don't see him as much as I'd like.
DOCTOR: Alright. Any allergies to medications?
PATIENT: Not that I know of. I haven’t taken a whole lot of medicine in my life, thankfully. I generally try to let things heal on their own, if possible. I had a bit of a reaction to penicillin when I was a boy, but that was a long time ago. Sarah used to keep track of all that stuff, but… well, I haven't gotten around to organizin’ her things yet. Mostly just aspirin for headaches, if I need it.
DOCTOR: Very well. Let’s do a quick physical exam, then we can get that urinalysis done. Please, step onto the scale for me.
PATIENT: Alright, sounds good, Doctor. I reckon I've put a few pounds on since Sarah passed. She always kept me movin', always had me workin' in the garden or takin' a walk. Not much of a surprise, I suppose.
DOCTOR: 72 kilograms. Height…?
PATIENT: Five foot three, Doctor. One-five-nine, if that’s what you need. I never was a tall man. Always had to look up to everyone else. My mother always said I got my height from my grandmother. She was a petite woman, too.
DOCTOR: Alright. Blood pressure… 135 over 80. Pulse is 72. Now, if you'll please lie down on the examination table. We'll listen to your heart and lungs.
PATIENT: Sure thing, Doctor. I always get a little nervous when listenin’ to my heart, reminds me of my father. He used to worry about it somethin’ awful. Let me know if you hear anything strange, alright? I’d rather know what’s goin’ on, even if it’s not good.
DOCTOR: Heart sounds are regular, but there’s a slight murmur. Probably benign, but we’ll want to monitor it. Lungs are clear. Now, I'm going to palpate your abdomen. Let me know if you feel any pain.
PATIENT: Alright, sounds good. I sometimes get a little heartburn after I eat, but nothing too serious. I've got a bit of a sensitive stomach, always have. My mother used to say I was a worrywart. She was probably right. Let me know if you feel anything unusual.
DOCTOR: Abdomen is soft, non-tender. No masses or organomegaly. Now, let’s take a look at your reflexes.
PATIENT: Alright, go ahead. My legs ain't what they used to be, spend a lot of time standin' at the workbench. Used to be able to hike for miles, but now I get tired pretty easy. That's just gettin' old, I reckon. Let me know if somethin' feels off.
DOCTOR: Reflexes are slightly diminished, but within normal limits for your age. Now, I'm going to need a urine sample. There's a cup in the bathroom. Please, try to collect a mid-stream sample.
PATIENT: Alright, sounds good, Doctor. I reckon I can manage that. Mid-stream, you said? Never thought I'd be discussin' my bodily functions with a doctor. I'll be right back with the sample.
DOCTOR: … diminished reflexes, slight murmur…likely age-related, but further investigation warranted.