DOCTOR: Right, Moshe Paske, 83. So, what brings you in today?
PATIENT: Well, Doctor Ruocco, it’s this daytime sleepiness. I’ve been using one of those machines at night – for the sleep apnea, you know? And it does help, I think. But I still find myself nodding off during the day. It’s… inconvenient, to say the least. Especially when I’m trying to grade papers.
DOCTOR: Grading papers, huh?
PATIENT: Yes, exactly. I teach a few courses at the community college – history, mostly. Local stuff, Spanish heritage, things like that. Keeps me busy, which is good. But if I’m really into a student’s essay… sometimes my eyes just close. It’s not every paper, mind you, but often enough to be a bother. And I don't want to be unfair to the students, you understand?
DOCTOR: Right, right. So, you're saying despite using a CPAP machine, you’re still experiencing excessive daytime sleepiness. For how long has this been going on with the machine?
PATIENT: Oh, let me think… with the machine? Hmm. It’s been… about six months now, I suppose. They fitted me with it in February, I believe. At first, it was wonderful! I felt so much more rested. But that… extra energy didn’t last. It faded, and now I’m back to fighting sleep, even after a full night with the mask on. Does that make sense? I'm trying to be precise, it’s just… time gets away from me these days.
DOCTOR: Six months. Okay. And are you using the machine every night?
PATIENT: Yes, Doctor. Pretty much every night. Now, there have been a couple of times when I was travelling – visiting my daughter in Florida, for example – and it was a bit tricky to take it with me. But 90% of the time, it’s on. I even have a special humidifier for it, to make it more comfortable. I’m trying to do everything right, you see? It’s just… not working as well as it should, I think.
DOCTOR: Humidifier, huh?
PATIENT: Well, yes. The technician – a very nice young man, name of David – he said it would make a difference. Less dryness in the nose, more comfortable breathing. He explained all the science of it, but honestly, I mostly just listened and nodded. I trust his expertise, you know? He seemed to know what he was talking about. And it did help with the dryness, I will say that. But it hasn't solved the sleepiness.
DOCTOR: Alright. And any other symptoms?
PATIENT: Other symptoms… hmm. Let me think. Well, I do wake up a few times during the night to… use the restroom. More often than I used to, perhaps. And my mouth feels a little dry sometimes, even with the humidifier. Not terribly dry, but noticeable. Oh, and I’ve been a bit… forgetful lately. Though, at my age, that could just be… well, you know. I used to have a perfect memory for dates, historical details, everything! Now, I have to write things down constantly. Is that relevant, do you think?
DOCTOR: Frequent urination, dry mouth, forgetfulness… Right. And are you taking any medications currently?
PATIENT: Yes, a couple. I take a small dose of lisinopril for my blood pressure – it gets a little high sometimes. And I have a statin for cholesterol, too – atorvastatin, I believe it’s called. I also take a vitamin D supplement – the doctor said my levels were low. Nothing else, really. Just those few things. I try to keep it simple, you understand? The fewer pills, the better.
DOCTOR: Okay. Let's do a quick physical exam. Just to get a baseline. Blood pressure first. 142 over 88. Not terrible, but could be better. Now, let me listen to your heart and lungs. Heart sounds regular, lungs are clear. Mouth is dry, as you mentioned. And let's check your reflexes… Reflexes are a bit diminished, but normal for your age.
PATIENT: Alright, that sounds reasonable. I appreciate you checking everything. Diminished reflexes… well, I am 83, after all. I suppose that's to be expected. I'm glad you listened to my lungs. My father had some trouble with his breathing later in life, so I always worry about that. Do you think all this sleepiness could be related to the medication? Perhaps the lisinopril? Or the statin?
DOCTOR: It could be the medication, but it's unlikely. Those medications rarely cause that level of sleepiness. We'll run some blood tests to rule out other possibilities. Things like thyroid levels, vitamin deficiencies, that sort of thing. I'm also going to order a sleep study, just to make sure your CPAP machine is still properly calibrated and that you don’t have any worsening apnea. We need to be thorough.
PATIENT: A sleep study again? Oh dear. I had one before, to get diagnosed in the first place. It wasn’t terribly comfortable, you know, all those wires and sensors. But if it’s necessary… I suppose I can do it. And blood tests, certainly. Anything to get to the bottom of this. Will the blood tests tell you if I’m getting enough iron? My daughter always says I should eat more spinach. She worries about my energy levels, too.
DOCTOR: Yes, the blood tests will check your iron levels. And other things. We'll get the lab orders sent over to the front desk. I'm also going to recommend you see a neurologist. Forgetfulness at your age could indicate something more serious. It's best to get it checked out. It’s probably nothing, but better safe than sorry. We’ll need a referral. Any questions?
PATIENT: A neurologist? Oh. Well, that’s… a bit concerning, isn’t it? I hadn’t even thought about anything serious. Just… old age, I assumed. But if you think it’s best… yes, alright. A referral to a neurologist. I suppose I should ask my daughter about finding a good one. She's very good at researching things. And the sleep study… well, I’ll brace myself. Is there anything I need to do to prepare for the sleep study? Or is it just the same as before? And… is there anything I should be doing now, while I’m waiting for the tests? Anything at all?
DOCTOR: Just try to get a good night’s sleep before the study. Avoid caffeine and alcohol. The study will be similar to the last one – they’ll hook you up to the same sensors. As for now… I'll write up a referral to Dr. Ramirez, a good neurologist downtown. The lab orders and the referral will be sent electronically to your primary care physician. Is there anything else I can help you with today?
PATIENT: Oh, Dr. Ramirez, that’s good to know. Thank you. No, I think that's all for now. Just the sleep study and the neurologist. I appreciate your thoroughness, Doctor Ruocco. It’s reassuring to know you’re taking this seriously. I’ll let my daughter know about everything. Thank you again for your time. And… hopefully, we can figure out what’s going on.
DOCTOR: Alright. Get some rest. Next! .
PATIENT: .