DOCTOR: Hi Betty, nice to meet you. I'm Dr. Amussen. So, what brings you in today?
PATIENT: Oh, hello dear. It’s… well, it’s my ears, I think. They just don't seem to work like they used to. Everything’s a bit muffled, you know? I have trouble hearing folks when they talk softly. It's been goin' on for a while now, but it seems worse lately. I don't rightly remember when it started, though. Old age, I suppose!
DOCTOR: Okay, muffled hearing, worse lately… that's helpful. And you said it’s been going on for a while, but you’re not sure exactly how long?
PATIENT: No, dear, not a clue. Months, maybe? Years? Time just… slips away, don't it? I used to work in a shoe factory, lots of noise, clatterin’ machines all day long. Could be somethin' to do with that, I reckon. But honestly, I just can't be sure. It’s hard to remember details these days.
DOCTOR: Okay, a history of noise exposure at the shoe factory. That's good information. And just to clarify, is this happening in both ears, or just one?
PATIENT: Both, I think. Yes, both ears. It’s not like one’s clear and one’s not, it's just… everything's quieted down, like someone turned the volume down low on the whole world. Sometimes it’s better than others, but mostly it’s hard to hear. I mostly just nod and smile, pretendin' I understand everything that’s bein’ said. It’s easier that way, you know?
DOCTOR: I understand. It sounds frustrating, having to strain to hear and pretend sometimes. Have you noticed any ringing in your ears, or dizziness along with the muffled hearing?
PATIENT: Ringing… now let me think. Sometimes, yes. A sort of… high-pitched whine. Not all the time, mind you. Just now and then. And dizziness… not really. Maybe a little unsteady on my feet sometimes, but I just figured that was old age again! I’ve always been a bit clumsy, truth be told. I don’t think that’s connected to my ears, though. Is it?
DOCTOR: Okay, so intermittent ringing in the ears and occasional unsteadiness. It’s good you’re mentioning everything. The unsteadiness could be related, or it could be separate, we'll need to explore that a bit. Now, have you ever had any ear infections, or any problems with earwax buildup that you're aware of?
PATIENT: Ear infections… goodness, that was ages ago. When I was a little girl, I think. My mother used to put warm oil in my ears. I don't remember much about it, really. As for earwax… well, I’ve always just sort of left them alone. Never poked around in there or anything. My mother always said, “Leave well enough alone,” and that’s what I’ve done. I don’t think I’ve ever had a lot of wax, though. At least, I don't remember it bein' a problem.
DOCTOR: Okay, no recent ear infections or known wax buildup. Let me just take a quick look in your ears to see what's going on. It won't hurt, just let me know if it’s uncomfortable. Alright, I’m seeing some cerumen – that’s earwax – in both ears, but it doesn’t seem to be a large blockage. The ear canals themselves look clear, and the eardrums appear intact, although a little cloudy. It looks like you have a bit of wax buildup, which could be contributing to the muffled hearing. It's hard to get a really good look with the wax present, though.
PATIENT: Oh, wax, you say? Well, I knew somethin' must be wrong! It figures. Never thought about wax, honestly. So, that's what's makin' it hard to hear? Can you… get it out? Is that what you do? I don't want nothin' poked and prodded, mind you. I'm a bit sensitive, you see. And I don’t want to cause any trouble.
DOCTOR: Yes, we can definitely address the wax buildup. There are a few ways to do it. We can try a simple earwax softening solution you’d use at home for a few days, and then I can gently irrigate your ears to flush out the wax. That’s usually the first step. It’s quite gentle, and we can stop at any time if it’s uncomfortable. We also have some other options if that doesn’t work, but let's start with the softening drops. Before we do that though, because of your age and the fact that the hearing has been worsening, I’d like to do a quick hearing test - an audiogram - just to get a baseline and make sure there isn’t anything else going on. Does that sound alright?
PATIENT: An audiogram? That sounds… serious. Is somethin' really wrong? I just thought it was the wax. I don’t want any fancy tests if it’s just my ears. And I don’t want to cause any trouble for you, dear. I'm an old woman, you know. It's probably just old age catchin' up with me. But if you think it’s best… I suppose I can try the test. But no pokin' and proddin', alright? And please be gentle.
DOCTOR: It's not about thinking something is seriously wrong, Betty. It’s standard practice when there's been a change in hearing, especially with age, to get a baseline measurement. It helps us rule out other causes and track any changes over time. The test is very simple, completely painless - you'll just wear headphones and listen for beeps. No poking or prodding at all, I promise. It’ll give us a better idea of what’s going on and help me decide on the best course of action. We can still address the wax, and that may solve the problem entirely. But this gives us a little more information. Would you like me to explain the test in a little more detail?
PATIENT: Oh, alright then. If it's just listenin' for beeps… I suppose I can manage that. Beeps don’t sound too scary. But if it takes too long, or if it gets uncomfortable, I want to stop, you hear? My patience isn't what it used to be. And please don’t shout the instructions at me. My ears aren't workin’ so well, remember? Just speak clearly and slowly. And explain it to me nice and slow, like you're talkin' to a child. I just want to get my hearin’ back to normal, if that’s possible.
DOCTOR: Absolutely, Betty. We'll take it as slow as you need to. I promise to speak clearly and slowly, and we can stop at any time if you're uncomfortable. The test takes about 20-30 minutes. You’ll sit in a soundproof booth, and I’ll give you headphones. You'll hear different tones at different volumes in each ear, and all you have to do is indicate when you can hear a tone. It’s a simple “yes” or “no” response. There’s a button you’ll press to let me know. We're just mapping out how well you hear different frequencies to see if there’s any specific pattern to the hearing loss. Would you like me to show you the headphones and the button first?