DOCTOR: Alright, Ms. Steines. 90 years young, huh?
PATIENT: Well, almost 90. August's my birthday, see? I'll be 90 then. But yeah, close enough. I just want to get this blood pressure thing figured out, if you don't mind. Don't want to be fussin' with too many doctor visits at my age.
DOCTOR: Right, right. Blood pressure. Look, I’ve got a lot of patients today, so let's try and be…efficient. You’ve been told you have high blood pressure before?
PATIENT: Oh, goodness yes. A few times now. Dr. Hemlock, back in Stilwell, he told me. And then the one over in Tahlequah, Dr…oh, shoot, can't remember his name. Anyways, they both said it was gettin' high. Put me on a pill for a bit, then I stopped takin' it 'cause I felt kinda funny.
DOCTOR: “Funny” how?
PATIENT: Well, dizzy-like. And kinda tired all the time, even more'n usual. It wasn't bad bad, just…not right. I figured maybe it was the pill messin' with me, so I stopped. Now my daughter, she's been naggin' me to come back to a doctor, sayin' it's important. She worries somethin' fierce.
DOCTOR: Okay. So, dizziness and fatigue when you were on the medication. And you stopped taking it yourself, I presume?
PATIENT: Yep, all on my own. I don't like feelin' foggy, you know? I need my wits about me for my bakin'. Can't measure flour right when you're feelin' like you're floatin' away! Besides, I felt better when I stopped, for a spell. But then I reckon I started feelin' a bit…thumpy in the chest sometimes.
DOCTOR: “Thumpy”?
PATIENT: Like a little bird flutterin' around in there. Not painful, just...noticeable. Especially when I'm bendin' over, workin' with the dough. Or if I walk up the steps to my porch. It goes away when I sit still, mostly.
DOCTOR: Alright. And how long has this “thumpy” feeling been going on?
PATIENT: Oh, goodness... maybe a month or so? Hard to say exactly. Things kinda blur together when you get to be my age, you know? But I'd say around a month. It started slow, just a little flutter now and then. Now it happens a bit more often, especially if I overdo it with the bakin’.
DOCTOR: Let's just get a reading and listen to your heart, alright?
PATIENT: Sounds good to me. Anything to get this sorted out. Don't like havin' to worry about things. Go ahead.
DOCTOR: Blood pressure's… elevated. Heart sounds a little irregular, too. We're gonna need to run some tests. EKG, blood work. Standard stuff.
PATIENT: Tests, huh? Well, I suppose that's what doctors do. I don’t mind the tests, long as they don’t take all day. And I hope I don’t have to fast for anything. I like my breakfast.
DOCTOR: You'll need to fast for the blood work. Twelve hours, nothing but water. We'll get the order to the lab. The EKG is quick, just some stickers on your chest. Nurse will handle that. I’m gonna order a basic metabolic panel and a complete blood count. And… we'll also check your thyroid. Just to be thorough.
PATIENT: Thyroid? What for? I ain't never had nothin' wrong with my thyroid. Is somethin' wrong? I don’t like bein’ poked and prodded if it ain’t necessary.
DOCTOR: Look, it's a routine test. It can sometimes cause… similar symptoms to what you’re describing. It’s standard protocol, alright?
PATIENT: Protocol… that’s what my daughter says all the time when she's tellin’ me what to do. Well, if you say it's important. Just tell me what I gotta do. Stickers and no eatin'. Is that right?
DOCTOR: Yes. Stickers and no eating after midnight. The nurse will explain everything. Here’s the order for the lab. Just take this to the front desk, they'll get you scheduled. Honestly, I have a lot of patients waiting…
PATIENT: Alright, alright. I’ll take it to the desk. Don't you worry none. I'm used to waitin'. Spent a good portion of my life waitin’ for things, one way or another. Thank you, Doctor.
DOCTOR: Right. You’re welcome. Next.
PATIENT: .
DOCTOR: .