DOCTOR: Hi Betty, good to see you. I'm Dr. Condray. So, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Oh, hello Doctor. Well, it’s… it’s my ears, I think. They just don’t… hear like they used to. It’s getting harder to make out what folks are sayin’. It’s not a sudden thing, just… slow, over time. Do you follow? I worked in a shoe factory for a long time, maybe that had somethin’ to do with it. Lots of noise, you see.
DOCTOR: Yes, I absolutely follow, Betty. Gradual hearing loss is very common, and a history of noise exposure like you had working in the shoe factory certainly could be a contributing factor. Okay, let’s talk a little more about this. When did you first start noticing this difficulty?
PATIENT: Oh dear… now that’s a tricky one. Seems like… a good while ago. Maybe… five, ten years? Hard to say exactly. Things just got… fuzzier, bit by bit. I don’t recall a specific moment, if that makes sense. I just found myself askin’ folks to repeat themselves more often. My niece, bless her heart, she started sayin’ I was gettin’ a bit hard of hearin’ too. She's a good girl, always lookin' out for me.
DOCTOR: That makes perfect sense, Betty. It often happens gradually. And it's good your niece is observant. So, it’s been five to ten years, slowly getting worse. Is it worse in one ear than the other, or is it pretty equal?
PATIENT: Hmm… now you’re askin’ a good question. I honestly couldn’t tell ya. I don’t pay much attention to which ear it is, just that it’s… muffled, mostly. Sometimes it feels clearer than others, but I couldn’t say if it’s a specific ear. I mostly just turn my good ear towards people when I'm talkin' to 'em. Does that make sense? I'm not very good at explainin' these things, I’m afraid.
DOCTOR: It makes perfect sense, Betty, don’t worry about explaining. We can figure this out together. Okay, so it sounds like it’s fairly equal in both ears and comes and goes a little. Aside from the difficulty hearing, have you noticed any ringing in your ears, or a feeling of fullness or pressure?
PATIENT: Ringing… now that’s somethin’ I have noticed, come to think of it. A sort of… high-pitched whine, sometimes. Not all the time, just now and then. It’s… quiet, but it’s there. And… fullness? Maybe. Hard to describe. Like… somethin’ blockin’ it up a little. Not painful, just… not open, like. I don’t think I ever really paid much attention to it before you asked. Is that… bad?
DOCTOR: Okay, Betty, that's helpful to know. The ringing – that’s called tinnitus – and the feeling of fullness are common with hearing loss. It doesn’t automatically mean anything serious, but it's good information to have. Now, let's move on to some other things. Do you feel like this hearing loss is affecting your balance at all?
PATIENT: Balance… oh, now there’s a thought. I’ve been a bit… unsteady on my feet lately, but I just figured it was old age creepin’ in! I’ve tripped a couple of times, nothin’ serious, just a little stumble. But I hadn't thought to connect it to my ears. Maybe it is related? I do get a little dizzy sometimes when I stand up too fast, too. But again, I just chalked that up to gettin' older. .
DOCTOR: Okay, Betty, that's very important information. Dizziness and unsteadiness can be related to inner ear issues. It's good you mentioned that. Now, have you ever had any ear infections, or any problems with ear pain, discharge, or drainage?