DOCTOR: Alright, Mr. Minerd, have a seat. So, what brings you in today?
PATIENT: Well, it's my face and legs, mostly. They're... puffy. Been that way a bit now, can't rightly say how long. Time just slips away, you know? Not as sharp as I used to be. It’s just… uncomfortable.
DOCTOR: Uncomfortable, alright. And is this puffiness... all over, or more in specific spots?
PATIENT: Oh, it's not like a balloon, mind you. More… evenly spread. Face is just… rounder, I suppose. And the legs, ankles mostly. Makes my boots feel a bit tight. I haven't changed my boots, though. Good boots, those. Had 'em for years.
DOCTOR: Right, so face and ankles, evenly spread. And it’s been going on for… some time. Do you notice it getting worse at any particular time of day?
PATIENT: Hmm. Now that you mention it… maybe in the evenings? Yes, I think so. After I’ve been on my feet all day. Welding's hard work, you know. Standing, bending… all of it. Doesn't help, I reckon. But what's a man to do?
DOCTOR: Welding, alright. So, worse in the evenings after being on your feet. Any pain associated with the puffiness, or just the discomfort?
PATIENT: Nah, no real pain. Just… heavy. Like I'm dragging weights around. And it's a bit itchy sometimes, around the ankles. Not terrible itchy, mind you. Just… noticeable. I mostly ignore it.
DOCTOR: Itchy, okay. Ignoring it isn’t always the best plan, but I understand. Have you noticed any changes in your urine – color, how often you go, anything like that?
PATIENT: Urine? Well, it looks… yellow, I suppose. Like it always does. I don’t really look at it, if you know what I mean. Never been one for scrutinizing my… business. As for how often, same as always. No changes there.
DOCTOR: Alright, alright. No changes in urine. And have you had any shortness of breath, or any chest pain?
PATIENT: Shortness of breath? No. I get a bit winded after climbing the stairs, but that's just 'cause I'm not as young as I used to be. And no chest pain. My heart’s been alright, as far as I know. Never had any trouble with it.
DOCTOR: Okay. And any other medical problems that I should be aware of?
PATIENT: Well… my wife, bless her soul, passed away a few years back. She had… something with her blood pressure, I think. Kept going to the doctor. I don’t really pay much attention to all that. Other than that… nothin' really. Just the usual aches and pains of gettin’ old, I suppose.
DOCTOR: I see. And are you currently taking any medications, or have you had any surgeries?
PATIENT: Medications? No. Never been one for pills, if I can help it. Surgeries… had my appendix out when I was a boy. That was a long time ago. Other than that, no. I've always been a tough Swede, I suppose.
DOCTOR: Alright. No medications, appendix out as a child. And any allergies to anything?
PATIENT: Allergies? Not that I know of. I eat pretty much anything. Used to go fishing with my wife all the time. Never had a reaction to any of it. Though… bees aren't my favorite. But that’s just common sense, isn't it?
DOCTOR: Alright, Mr. Minerd. Let’s take a look at your ankles and do a quick listen to your heart and lungs, if that's alright with you. Then we can figure out what's going on.
PATIENT: Sounds good, Doctor. Whatever you think is best. I trust your judgment. Just gettin' old is a nuisance, that's all.
DOCTOR: Alright. So, I'm just checking for any tenderness or swelling here... I do notice some pitting edema – meaning the swelling leaves a slight indentation when I press on it. That can indicate fluid retention. Now, let's listen to your heart and lungs. Take a deep breath for me… Lungs sound clear. Heart sounds… a little bit of a murmur, but not terribly concerning at this point. Blood pressure is 150/90, which is a little elevated.
PATIENT: Elevated, you say? Like my wife’s? Is that bad? I don’t want to end up like her, always fussin’ with doctors and pills…
DOCTOR: It's not ideal, Mr. Minerd, but it's also not an immediate emergency. It's higher than we’d like, and it does warrant some attention. Your wife’s history is something we need to take into account. The puffiness, combined with the elevated blood pressure and the murmur… it could be a few things. It could be related to your heart, or it could be something else entirely. We need to rule some things out. I’m going to order some blood work and a urine test to get a better picture of what’s going on. We also need to do an EKG to check your heart’s electrical activity. And I’d like to schedule a follow-up appointment in a week to discuss the results. How does that sound?
PATIENT: Tests… more tests. Alright, Doctor. If you think it’s necessary. Just… try not to make a fuss, alright? I don’t do well with all this… scrutiny. A week, you say? That's alright. I suppose I can manage. Will I need to fast for the blood work? And what about the urine test… where do I even…?
DOCTOR: Yes, you'll need to fast for the blood work – no food or drink after midnight. I'll give you a paper with detailed instructions. As for the urine test, you’ll get a sterile cup from the nurse, and you just need to collect a sample when you come in next week. It’s a pretty straightforward process – she’ll explain everything. I'm also going to give you a handout on managing high blood pressure – some simple dietary changes and lifestyle adjustments that can make a big difference. It’s not about making drastic changes, just small steps. We can discuss it at your follow-up appointment. And Mr. Minerd, I want to emphasize that we're just being cautious here. It’s better to rule things out and get a clear picture of what’s going on, even if it turns out to be nothing serious. Do you have any other questions for me right now?
PATIENT: No, I don’t think so. Just… the tests. And not makin’ a fuss. Alright. Fastin’ and… collectin’. Sounds like a lot. But I trust you, Doctor. Just get me back to my welding, alright? That's all I ask.
DOCTOR: That's the goal, Mr. Minerd. We'll get you sorted out. The nurse will come in shortly to explain the test details and schedule your follow-up. You take care of yourself, and try not to worry too much. We'll figure this out. .