DOCTOR: Hi Soila, it’s so nice to meet you. I'm Dr. Decosta. Thanks for coming in today. Why don’t you tell me a little bit about what brought you in?
PATIENT: Oh, hello Doctor. It's nice to meet you too. Hmm... what brought me in? Let me think... my tummy feels… big. And I don't want to eat much anymore. It's just… not feeling right. I don't remember when it started, exactly. A little while ago, I think.
DOCTOR: Okay, “tummy feels big” and not wanting to eat much. That’s a good place to start. When you say “big,” can you tell me a little more about that?
PATIENT: Oh… well, it’s just… puffier. Like a balloon, maybe? Not painful, really. Just… different. I used to be… thinner, I guess. But my memory… it’s not so good these days. It’s hard to say how much bigger. It just feels… full. Is that making sense? I don't know if that helps.
DOCTOR: It absolutely helps, Soila. It’s okay that your memory isn’t what it used to be, we'll work through this together. “Puffier,” and feeling “full”... and has this change in how your tummy feels been happening gradually, or did it feel more sudden?
PATIENT: Oh, gradually, I think. Yes, that sounds right. Slowly. Not one day I woke up and poof, it was big. It just… got bigger and bigger, over time. It’s hard to say how long… weeks, maybe? Or months? It's all a bit blurry, you see. I used to be very good with dates, when I was a sociologist… but that was a long time ago.
DOCTOR: Okay, gradually over weeks or months. And besides feeling fuller and not wanting to eat as much, have you noticed any other changes?
PATIENT: Hmm… let me think. Other changes… Not that I can remember, really. Sometimes I feel a little tired, but I'm ninety years old! So that's probably just old age. Oh! Sometimes… my ankles swell a little. But not always. And I don't know if that's related to the tummy… or just… my legs.
DOCTOR: Okay, tiredness and sometimes swollen ankles. Good to know. And it's helpful that you recognize those might be connected, or might not be. Now, have you had any changes in your bathroom habits?
PATIENT: Oh… bathroom habits? Oh dear. That's a bit personal, isn’t it? Let me see… everything seems… normal, I suppose. Not any trouble going to the bathroom, if that's what you mean. Just… not as much to go, maybe? Because I’m not eating much. Is that okay to say? I don't want to bother you with old lady problems.
DOCTOR: It's perfectly okay to say, Soila, that's important information. “Not as much to go” makes sense with the decreased appetite. Now, I’m just going to ask a few more general questions, then I’d like to do a quick exam if that’s alright with you. Have you had any unintentional weight loss recently?
PATIENT: Oh, weight loss? Probably. I haven’t weighed myself in… well, a very long time. I used to, when I was younger, for my research. But now… no. I suppose I’m probably lighter. But I don’t feel much different. It’s hard to say. Everything feels a bit… slow these days. Is that a bad thing?
DOCTOR: It's not necessarily a bad thing, Soila, just good information to have. Okay, and lastly, have you been having any trouble breathing, or any chest pain?
PATIENT: No, no trouble breathing. And no pain in my chest. My heart… it sometimes flutters, but that’s been happening for years. The doctor told me it was just… old age, again. I’m mostly just an old lady, you see. Lots of little things that don't matter much. But this tummy… it’s new. And I wanted to make sure it wasn’t something serious.
DOCTOR: Alright. It’s good that you’re coming to get this checked out, even if it is just a “little thing.” Now, would you mind if I listened to your heart and lungs, and gently feel your tummy?
PATIENT: Oh, no, no problem at all, Doctor. You do whatever you need to do. I trust you. My tummy doesn't hurt, so you can poke around as much as you like. Just be gentle, please. Old ladies have delicate skin, you know!
DOCTOR: Okay, I'm just going to listen to your heart and lungs, and then I'll gently press on your tummy. Just let me know if anything feels uncomfortable. Your heart sounds a little irregular, as you mentioned, but that seems consistent with what you’ve told me. Your lungs sound clear. Now, when I press on your tummy, it does feel a bit…distended, or swollen. It’s not painful to the touch, but it’s definitely firmer than I’d expect. I also notice some fluid shifting around when I press. It doesn't immediately point to anything specific, but given your decreased appetite and the swelling, I'd like to order some blood work and an ultrasound of your abdomen, if that's alright with you. The ultrasound will give us a better look at what's going on inside.
PATIENT: Oh dear. Blood work and an ultrasound? Is it something bad, Doctor? I don't like going to the hospital… or having tests done. I just want to feel better. What will the tests tell you? And will it hurt? I’m a bit of a scaredy-cat, you see. Old age does that to you.
DOCTOR: It's okay to be scared, Soila. That's perfectly understandable. The tests aren't meant to scare you, they're just to help us figure out what’s causing the swelling and decreased appetite. The blood work is just a simple blood draw - you won't even feel it much. And the ultrasound is completely painless - it uses sound waves to create a picture of your organs. It's like a pregnancy scan, but we're looking at your tummy instead of a baby. The results will help us rule out different possibilities, and get a clearer idea of what's going on. It could be something simple, like a build-up of fluid, or it could be something more serious. We won't know until we get the results. Do you have any other questions about the tests?
PATIENT: A picture of my organs? Oh dear… that sounds a bit frightening. Will I have to lie down? And will I be alone? I don't like being alone in hospitals. It's so… cold and scary. And what if they find something bad? I don't want to be a bother to anyone. I'm just an old lady, you see. I’ve lived a long life. Maybe it’s just… old age.