DOCTOR: Good morning, Mr. Parascandola. I'm Dr. Nestingen. So, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Morning, Doctor. It’s my foot, see? It’s been swelling up. Mostly just the one, my left one. It started a few days ago, I think… maybe last week? Hard to say exactly, time flies, you know?
DOCTOR: Last week, you say. And just the left foot?
PATIENT: Yeah, just the left. Right one’s fine, thankfully. It's not painful painful, more like… uncomfortable. Like it’s too tight in my shoe, even when it’s not. And it feels warm sometimes, you know? Not fever warm, but… warmer than my other foot. Does that make sense? I don't know medical words, sorry.
DOCTOR: Warmth… right. And has anything specific caused this, to your knowledge?
PATIENT: Hmm… not that I can think of. I walk a lot, I work, you know, loan interviews, so I'm on my feet all day. But I haven’t tripped or bumped it or anything. I haven’t changed shoes recently either. Just… woke up one morning and it was a bit puffy. It's been getting worse since then, slowly, though. Not all at once.
DOCTOR: Loan interviews. A lot of walking. And you said it’s been getting worse “slowly.” Is it worse at the end of the day?
PATIENT: Yeah, definitely worse at the end of the day. After work, it feels like it’s ballooned up, almost. I usually put my feet up when I get home, but… it doesn’t seem to help much, honestly. I try to take off my shoes as soon as I get in the door, that's for sure. But it’s still there, swollen and… heavy, you know? It’s just… annoying, more than anything. But it’s been going on long enough now that I figured I should get it checked.
DOCTOR: Right. And any other symptoms?
PATIENT: Other symptoms… let me think. No, not really. I haven’t noticed any pain in my calf, or redness, or anything like that. No fever, like I said. My skin… feels normal, I guess. Maybe a little tight around the ankle where it’s swelling? But I can’t really say for sure. Oh! Actually… sometimes my ankle feels a little stiff in the morning, before I start walking. But it loosens up pretty quick. Does that count?
DOCTOR: Stiffness… alright. Do you have any medical conditions that you are aware of?
PATIENT: No, not really. I’ve been pretty healthy, knock on wood. I haven’t been to the doctor in… a long time, to be honest. Just for check-ups, you know? Nothing serious. No diabetes, no high blood pressure, nothing like that. And I don’t take any medications. I just… try to stay active, mostly. And eat okay. I’m not insured, so I try to avoid doctors when I can, if that makes sense. But this foot… it’s getting harder to ignore.
DOCTOR: Right. No insurance. And you haven't seen a doctor regularly. Well. Let’s have a look at it, shall we?
PATIENT: Yeah, that sounds good. Whatever you think is best, Doctor. It's probably nothing, really. Just a little… puffiness, like I said. But I appreciate you taking a look.
DOCTOR: Hmm… some tenderness here, along the outside of the ankle. Pulse is present, though a little diminished. Range of motion is…slightly restricted. And yes, I do see some edema – swelling – along the foot and ankle. It's not dramatically red or warm to the touch, but there is some discoloration. It could be a sprain, but given the gradual onset and lack of specific injury, we should rule out other possibilities.
PATIENT: Okay. Rule out other possibilities… that sounds…serious. What kind of possibilities? Is it something bad? I don't want anything… broken, or anything. I need to be able to walk to work, you know? I don't have a car. What do you think it is, Doctor? Could it be just… a really bad bruise? Or something with the blood flow? I worry a lot, you see. And I don't have anyone to help me out if I can't work…
DOCTOR: It’s unlikely to be a fracture, given your description. A simple bruise is… possible, but the persistence and lack of a clear injury make it less likely. Regarding blood flow, that’s what we need to investigate. It could be a superficial thrombophlebitis – a blood clot in a vein – or, less likely, something more significant. We'll need to do some blood work. And I’d like to order a D-dimer test to rule out a deep vein thrombosis – a more serious blood clot. I understand your concern, Mr. Parascandola, but we need to be thorough. I'll write the orders now. The lab is down the hall.
PATIENT: Okay. Blood work… and a… D-dimer? That sounds… expensive. I don't have a lot of money, Doctor. Can we… do the cheapest tests first? I can’t afford a lot of tests, honestly. And what will happen if it is a blood clot? Do I have to go to the hospital? I just want to get this foot fixed, you know? I don’t want a big problem. And if it's something bad, can I get some kind of help paying for it? I really don't have much saved up…
DOCTOR: The D-dimer is necessary to rule out a serious condition, Mr. Parascandola. We can’t simply ignore the possibility of a deep vein thrombosis. Regarding cost… I understand your situation. The lab may have some financial assistance programs. I'll have the receptionist provide you with information. If the D-dimer is elevated, you will require further imaging – likely a Doppler ultrasound – and may need to go to the hospital for treatment. I will write the order for the blood work now. Let's start there. We can discuss options if the results are concerning. Do you understand?
PATIENT: Okay, okay. I understand. Blood work first. And then… maybe hospital, if it’s bad. And I'll ask the receptionist about help with the money. That sounds… okay. Just please… tell me what's wrong, Doctor. And what I need to do. I just want to get back to work. Is it okay if I take a break for the rest of the day? My foot is starting to hurt a little more now, with all the poking and prodding, you know?
DOCTOR: Yes, you may take a break today. Avoid putting weight on the foot as much as possible. We will review the results as soon as they are available. The receptionist will schedule a follow-up appointment. We’ll discuss the next steps then.