DOCTOR: Alright, Ms. Reihner, good to meet you. So, what brings you in to see me today?
PATIENT: Good day, Doctor. My back...it is painful. Very painful, actually. I wish to be quick, if that is alright with you. I have work to do.
DOCTOR: Yes, alright. Quick is fine. “Very painful” is…not terribly specific, unfortunately. But we’ll get there. Can you tell me where exactly on your back it hurts?
PATIENT: Right here. Lower back. It started…a few weeks ago, I believe. After a long day building fence. It has not gotten better. Only worse, with each passing day. It aches all the time, but when I bend...oh, it is a sharp pain then.
DOCTOR: Okay, lower back pain, started a few weeks ago after fence building. Constant ache, sharp pain with bending. And is it pain that radiates anywhere?
PATIENT: Radiates? I do not...understand. Does that mean does it go somewhere else? If so, yes. Sometimes it goes down my leg. Not always, but when it is bad, it does. Down the back of my leg. Both legs, sometimes. Not at the same time, though.
DOCTOR: Alright, radiating pain down the legs. That’s helpful. Does anything relieve the pain?
PATIENT: Relieve…hmm. Not much. Laying down, sometimes. But I have work, Doctor. I cannot lay down all day. Warm water on my back helps a little, for a short time. But it comes back quickly. Nothing lasts. It just…hurts.
DOCTOR: Okay. Warm water provides temporary relief. And when you say “work,” what kind of work do you do specifically?
PATIENT: I erect fences. Building fences, Doctor. For farms, mostly. Lots of lifting. Lots of bending. Lots of…everything, really. It is hard work. Is that what is causing this, do you think?
DOCTOR: Well, Ms. Reihner, it's…not a particularly surprising development, given your line of work. Repetitive strain, heavy lifting...it's a common enough issue. But we need to rule out other possibilities before we jump to conclusions. I’m going to need to do a quick physical exam, alright?
PATIENT: An exam? Very well. But please be quick. I have deadlines to meet. And I have Medicare, if that is important.
DOCTOR: Medicare is noted. And yes, I will be as efficient as possible. If you could just lie down on your stomach for me, please. I’m going to palpate your spine, check your range of motion, and do a few neurological tests. Just let me know if anything is particularly painful.
PATIENT: Palpate? Range of…motion? These are words I do not know. Just...be careful. And quick. I do not wish to worsen this.
DOCTOR: Alright. I’m just feeling along your spine, checking for tenderness. A little muscle spasm here, on the left side… and some mild tenderness directly over L4 and L5. Anything particularly sharp with that?
PATIENT: Yes! There. L4 and L5...that is sharp. Like a…a burning. Not all the time, but when you push there. Please…be gentle. It feels like you are pressing on a broken piece.
DOCTOR: Alright, alright. I’m being very careful. Just noting your sensitivity. Now, I'm going to ask you to try and lift each leg, one at a time. Just straight up, like you're trying to get it off the table. Let me know if you feel any pain shooting down your legs as you do that. We'll start with your right leg.
PATIENT: Aaaah! There! That is… terrible. Pain down the back of my leg. The whole leg, burning. I cannot do that. Please, Doctor. Do not make me do that again.
DOCTOR: Alright, alright. No need to do that again. That’s…quite telling. I’m going to check your reflexes now. Just relax your legs. I'm going to tap on your knees with this little hammer.
PATIENT: A hammer? You are going to hit me with a hammer? Is this…necessary? I do not understand why you must do all of these things. I only told you my back hurts.
DOCTOR: Ms. Reihner, it’s not hitting you. It’s a reflex test. It helps me assess the nerves in your legs. It’s a standard part of a physical exam, especially when you’re experiencing lower back pain radiating down your legs. It’s quick, and it will help me determine the best course of action. Just relax, and I’ll do it. Alright. Right leg… 2+ reflex. A little diminished. Left leg… also 2+, slightly diminished. Not a dramatic difference, but it’s worth noting.
PATIENT: Diminished? What does that mean? Is something wrong with my legs? I need to know. I have work. I have to be able to walk, to build. Is this something serious? Do not use these…these words I do not understand. Just tell me, plain and simple, what is happening.
DOCTOR: Alright, Ms. Reihner. What it means is that your reflexes aren’t quite as strong as they should be. It suggests there’s some…irritation of the nerves in your lower back. It's likely a pinched nerve. Given your work history, and the pain radiating down your legs, it’s highly probable this is related to a herniated disc. It’s not necessarily serious in the sense that it's life-threatening. But it is serious enough to require attention, or it will only get worse. I’m going to order an MRI to confirm my suspicions. And I'll prescribe some muscle relaxants and anti-inflammatory medication to help with the pain in the meantime.
PATIENT: Herniated…disc? A broken disc? Is that…surgery? Will I be able to work? I cannot afford to be off work. What if I lose my job? My husband…he needed that job. Now I do the work…and if I lose this, what will happen? I do not want surgery. I just want the pain to go away. Is there nothing else? Nothing simpler? .
DOCTOR: Ms. Reihner, please calm down. It’s not necessarily a broken disc. “Herniated” simply means the disc is out of place, putting pressure on the nerve. And surgery is rarely the first option. We'll try conservative treatment first – medication, physical therapy. I understand your concerns about work, but jumping to conclusions isn't helpful. The MRI will give us a clearer picture. We will address that after we see the results. I am prescribing you a muscle relaxant and a non-steroidal anti-inflammatory medication. Take as directed. Physical therapy referral is also being sent. .