DOCTOR: Good afternoon, Mr. Fratoni. I am Dr. Mutnick. Please, have a seat. Now, let’s get straight to the point. What brings you in today?
PATIENT: Well, uh, good afternoon to you too, Doc. It’s this chair, see? I just… can’t seem to get out of it anymore. Not easily, anyway. It started a few weeks back, but it’s getting worse. Feels like somethin’s stuck, if that makes sense.
DOCTOR: “Something stuck”?
PATIENT: Yeah, like… when I go to stand up, it’s like a hitch. Not pain, exactly, just… resistance. Like my legs aren't listening, or somethin’. It's kinda hard to explain. I gotta really push to get goin’, and even then it ain’t smooth. More of a… jerk, I guess? Does that make any more sense? I'm usually pretty good at explainin' things, but this... it’s weird.
DOCTOR: I see. And this difficulty… is it present consistently, or does it fluctuate?
PATIENT: Fluctuate, yeah, that’s a good word for it. It’s worse in the mornin’, definitely. First few times I stand up after sleepin’, it's a real struggle. Later in the day, after I’ve been movin’ around a bit at work… it eases up. Not gone completely, mind you, just… less bad. Some days are better than others, too. I can't really figure out what makes the difference. I work out in the oil fields, a lot of bendin’ and liftin’, so maybe it’s that?
DOCTOR: Oil fields, you say?
PATIENT: Yep. Roustabout work. Mostly just keepin' things movin’, you know? Heavy stuff, long hours. I’ve been doin’ it a little over four years now. Before that… well, before that I was… lookin' after my wife. She got sick. Didn’t last long, unfortunately. But yeah, oil work keeps me busy, keeps my mind off things. It's just… gettin' harder to do, if you know what I mean. This chair thing... it's kinda scaring me. I need to be able to move, you know?
DOCTOR: I understand you’ve experienced a personal loss, Mr. Fratoni. However, we need to focus on the physical complaint. Tell me, have you noticed any weakness in your legs, aside from this difficulty initiating movement?
PATIENT: Right, sorry Doc. Just… gets to me sometimes. Weakness… not really. They feel fine, just… stubborn. Like they don't wanna cooperate. I can walk all day, climb stairs, even lift heavy things at work, but gettin' started is the hard part. It ain't a strength thing, I don’t think. More like… a connection problem, maybe? Like somethin’s not tellin’ my legs to go. Does that sound crazy? I know you’re the doctor and all…
DOCTOR: “Connection problem.” Interesting terminology, Mr. Fratoni. Have you experienced any numbness or tingling in your legs or feet?
PATIENT: Nope, no numbness or tingle-y stuff. Nothing like that. Full feeling, always. It’s just… tight. Like when you’ve been sittin’ too long and your legs kinda “fall asleep”, but not really asleep. Just… stiff. And then they’re stubborn about movin’ when I try to stand. That's the best way I can put it, I think. It’s not a pain thing, and it ain't a feelin' thing, it’s just… doin’ somethin’ it doesn't wanna do.
DOCTOR: Very well. Let’s have you stand up for me, Mr. Fratoni. I want to observe your initiation of movement. And please, do so without using your hands for assistance.
PATIENT: Uh, okay. No hands, right. There. Like that. Pretty rough, huh? Told ya it wasn’t easy. And that was just sittin' in this chair. Not even a particularly hard chair, I thought.
DOCTOR: Yes, I observed that. Noticeable hesitation and rigidity upon initiation of movement. Some compensatory trunk flexion. Now, please sit back down. I will assess your range of motion and reflexes. Flex your knee. And now extend it. Good. Now the other one…flex. Extend.
PATIENT: There. That one's a little tight, on the right. Feels… pinched, almost. Not bad, just… not smooth. Everything else feels alright, I guess. Like I said, ain't a strength issue. I can bend 'em pretty far, just… that startin’ part is the problem. And that little pinch on the right.
DOCTOR: Based on my assessment, Mr. Fratoni, it appears you may be experiencing early signs of musculoskeletal stiffness, possibly exacerbated by the physical demands of your profession. I suspect this is not a serious condition. We will need to rule out any neurological causes, however. I'm ordering a basic blood panel and a referral to physical therapy. Physical therapy will focus on range of motion exercises and strengthening. Here. Take this to the clinic on Elm Street. They will schedule you an appointment.
PATIENT: Alright, that sounds… reasonable. Blood work and physical therapy. Elm Street, got it. Just to be safe, right? Make sure it ain’t somethin’ serious? ‘Cause you said it didn’t sound serious, but… I don’t wanna mess around with my legs, you know? They’re kinda important for my job. And… well, everything else, too. So, yeah, I’ll get to physical therapy. Is there anything else I need to know right now? Or just wait for the blood work results?
DOCTOR: The blood work is simply a formality, Mr. Fratoni. But you are correct, it is always best to be thorough. If you experience any sudden weakness, numbness, or loss of bowel or bladder control, present yourself immediately at the nearest emergency room. Otherwise, adhere to the physical therapy regimen and schedule a follow-up appointment with me in four weeks to reassess. Do you have any further questions?
PATIENT: Okay, sudden weakness, numbness, or… trouble with, uh, goin' to the bathroom. Got it. Four weeks, follow-up. No, I think that covers it, Doc. Thank you. I appreciate you lookin’ into it. Hopefully it’s just my legs bein’ stubborn, like you said. I'll get to physical therapy and see what they can do. Thanks again. Have a good day. .
DOCTOR: Very well. Do not hesitate to contact the clinic if you experience any concerning changes. Good day. .