DOCTOR: Alright, Mr. Benic, yes. 63, Scottish… Right. So, what brings you in today?
PATIENT: Aye, that's right. Well, it's been a bit of a bother, this morning sickness, if you will. It’s just… I get awful nauseous first thing, nearly every day now. And it’s not like a quick thing, it can last a good few hours. It’s worryin’ me a bit, seein’ as how the doctor told me a while back about my heart… I just want to make sure it's not somethin’ serious linked to that.
DOCTOR: Morning sickness?
PATIENT: Aye, that's what it feels like, though I'm a bit past the age for that, eh? It's that queasy feelin’, and sometimes I actually am sick. Not every day, mind you, but often enough to be a nuisance. And like I said, it started after the last check-up when Dr. MacLeod mentioned my heart wasn’t as strong as it used to be. I just keep thinkin’ it could be connected, you know? Makes a fella worry.
DOCTOR: Right. And how long has this “morning sickness” been going on?
PATIENT: Hmm… let me think now. It started… oh, about six weeks ago, I’d say. Maybe a little longer. At first, it was just now and then, easily dismissed. But it’s gotten worse steadily. Now, it’s nearly every mornin’, like clockwork. It’s not gettin’ better, that’s for sure. It's makin' it hard to even have a cup of tea, and you know a Scotsman needs his tea!
DOCTOR: And you’ve had this heart issue diagnosed…when, exactly?
PATIENT: Oh, it was about… three years ago now, I reckon. Dr. MacLeod did an ECG and told me I had a bit of cardiomyopathy, he called it. Said it was mild, and to keep an eye on it. I've been back for check-ups every six months or so, and he's adjusted my medication a couple of times. But this nausea… it’s new. And I just thought, with the heart trouble, it could be somethin' serious developin', you know? It’s a wee bit frightening, to be honest.
DOCTOR: So, you're on medication for cardiomyopathy… What medications are you currently taking?
PATIENT: Aye, that’s right. Let me see… I’ve got… Lisinopril, 10 milligrams, once a day. And Bisoprolol, 5 milligrams, also once a day. And… oh, and Furosemide, 40 milligrams, every other day. I try to be very careful with them, make sure I take them at the same time each day. I have a wee chart on the fridge to help me remember, actually. I’m not daft, but a fella forgets, doesn’t he? Especially at my age!
DOCTOR: Any allergies to medications?
PATIENT: No, none at all. Never had a reaction to anythin', thankfully. I've had the usual childhood illnesses, measles and all that, but no allergies to speak of. I can take most things without a bother. My wife, bless her soul, she was allergic to penicillin, but I've never had that problem myself. I'm pretty lucky in that regard, I suppose. It's just this nausea… that's what's botherin’ me.
DOCTOR: Alright. Have you noticed any other symptoms along with this nausea?
PATIENT: Aye, now that you mention it… I've been a bit more breathless than usual, especially when I'm walkin' uphill. It’s not terrible, mind you, but I have to stop and catch my breath more often. And my ankles… they’ve been a bit swollen at the end of the day. Not huge, but definitely noticeable. I thought it might be the heat, to be honest, but it’s been happenin’ even on cooler days. And I’ve been feelin’ a wee bit tired, too. Just generally run down, like I haven’t got my usual pep. Does that make sense?
DOCTOR: Okay. Let’s take a listen to your heart and lungs, and I’ll have a look at your ankles. Then we'll talk. Just sit back and relax.
PATIENT: Aye, that sounds good, Doctor. Whatever you think best. I'm happy to do whatever's needed. Just want to get to the bottom of this, you know? I'll just sit here and try to relax… though it's hard when you're feelin' a bit poorly.
DOCTOR: Alright. Heart sounds… a bit muffled, some slight edema in both ankles. Lungs are clear, but breathing is a little shallow. Blood pressure is 140/90, pulse is 78. Not ideal, but not alarming. Given your history of cardiomyopathy, the nausea, breathlessness, and ankle swelling… it could be worsening heart failure. We need to run some tests to confirm. I'm going to order a BNP blood test and an ECG. Also, I want you to get a chest X-ray.
PATIENT: Aye, that sounds… serious. Worsenin' heart failure, you say? That doesn't sound good at all. I’ll be honest, I was fearin' somethin' like that. The tests sound sensible enough, though. BNP, ECG, X-ray… I’ll get those done as soon as I can. Where should I go for them? And… how long will it take to get the results? I’m a bit worried now, to be honest.
DOCTOR: The lab and radiology are both at the clinic, down the hall. Just tell them I sent you. Results should be back within 24-48 hours. In the meantime, I’m going to increase your Furosemide to 80 milligrams daily. And I want you to monitor your weight closely. If you gain more than two pounds in a day, call the office immediately. And… try to limit your salt intake. I know it’s hard, but it’ll help. We’ll go from there once we have the results. Don’t panic. We’re just being cautious.
PATIENT: Aye, right. 80 milligrams of the Furosemide, I’ve got that. And monitor my weight… two pounds, you say? And limit the salt. I’ll do my best, Doctor. It's just… I do enjoy a wee bit of salt on my porridge, you know? But I understand. I’ll try. And the results in 24-48 hours… I’ll keep an eye out for them. Thank you, Doctor. I appreciate you takin’ the time to look into this. It’s a weight off my mind, even if it's not a good one, to know what might be goin’ on. I'll be seein’ you again soon, I suppose. Hopefully, it’s not too bad. .
DOCTOR: Alright. We’ll be in touch. Try not to worry too much. Next patient.